To consolidate the law relating to the taxation of incomes and
donations.
(English text aged by the State President.)
(Assented to 25th May, 1962.) .
PRELIMINARY. ,
1. Interpretation,
2, Act to be administered by Commissioner.
3. Exercise of powers and performance of duties.
4. Preservation of secrecy.
PART J.
5. Levy of normal tax and rates thereof.
6. Normal tax rebates. ,
7. When income is deemed to have accrued or to have
&. Certain amounts to be included in income or taxable |
income.
9, Circumstances in which amounts are deemed to have
accrued from sources within the Republic,
10. Exemptions. 7 |
11. General deductions allowed in determination of
taxable income. |
12. Deductions in respect of machinery or plant used in a
process of manufacture or by guint g
13. Deductions in respect of buildings used in a process :
of manufacture or by hotelkecpers. |
l4. Deductions in respect of ships. | |
15. Deductions from income derived from mining |
operations. ;
16. Deduction of expenses incurred by dentists and medical |
practitioners on post-graduate study courses.
17. Deduction of expenses incurred by manufacturers in
appointing agents outside the Republic. |
18. Deduction in respect of fees paid to dentists, medical
 __ practitioners, nursing homes or hospitals,  .
19. Deductions and set-off from income derived from
dividends, |
20. Set-off of assessed losses. a
21. Deduction of amounts payable by way of alimony,
allowance or maintenance,
22, Amounts to be taken into account in respect of values
of trading stocks.
23. Deductions not allowed in determination of taxable
income. |
24. Hire-purchase or other agreements providing for
postponement of passing of property concerned.
25. Income of beneficiaries and estates of deceased persons.
26, Determination of taxable income derived from farming.
27. Determination of taxable income of co-operative
societies and companies. ,
28, Determination of taxable income derived from
29, Taxable income of public servants.

Section,

30. Persons carrying on business which extends beyond
the Republic.

31. Determination of taxable income of certain persons
buying or selling commodities.

32. Assessment in the case of submarine cable or wireless
business,

33. Assessment of owners or charterers ships or
aircraft mot ordinarily resident or registered,
managed or controlled in the Republic.

34. Assessment of persons not ordinarily resident or
registered, managed or controlled in the Republic
who derive income from film business.

35. Assessment of persons not ordinarily resident or
registered, or controlled in the Republic
who derive income from royaltics or similar pay-
ments.

36. Calculation of redemption allowance and unredeemed
balance of capital expenditure in connection with
mining operations.

37. Calculation of capital expenditure on change of
ownership of mining property.

PART I.
special Provisions relating to Companies.

38. Classification of companies.

39, Redetermination of company’s status,

40. Objection and appeal.

PART It. Oo

41. Levy of non-resident shareholders’ tax.

42. Income subject to tax.

43, Person liable for tax.

44. Recovery of tax.

45. Kate of tax.

46. Determination of tax if company operates outside the :
Republic.

47. Date of payment of tax.

PART IF.
Unaistributed Profits Tax.

48, ad Bord undistributed profits tax and thereof.

49. Definitions for purposes of this Part.

50. Exemptions. |

51. Assessment of undistributed profits tax.

52. Special provisions to apply in certain cases.

53. Objection and appeal.

PART F. |
Donations Tax.

54. i donations tax.

55. Definitions for purposes of this Fart.

56. Exemptions. "

57. Donations by a wife or by a body corporate at the

_ instance of any person.

58. Property disposed of under certain transactions

| deemed to have been disposed of donations.

59. Persons liable for tax.

60. Payment and assessment of tax.

61. Extension of scope of certain provisions of Act for
yun of donations tax. )

62. Value of property disposed of under donations.

63. Objection and appeal.

64. Rate of donations tax.

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY, 1962 17
GENERAL PROVISIONS,
Returns. |
65. Returns to be in form prescribed by Commissioner.
66. Notice by Commissioner requiring returns for assess-
ment of taxes under this Act and manner of fur-
nishing returns and interim returns. |
67. Half yearly returns by persons engaged in gold mining.
63. Income of married women and minor children,
69. Duty to furnish returns as to employees, their earnings |
and other matters.
70. Duty of companies to furnish returns.
Tl. Return of payments in respect of bearer warrants. ,
72. Return as to sharcholdings.
73. Duty of persons submitting accounts in support of
returns, Or preparing accounts for other persons.
74. Production of documents and evidence on oath.
75. Penalty on default.
76, Additional tax in event of default or omission.
PART I, 7
Assessments.
Tf. Assessments and recording thereof.
78. Estimated assessments,
79. Additional assessments.
80. Inspection of record of assessments.
PART Til. .
Objections and Appeals.
81. Time and manner of lodging objections.
62. Burden of proof as to exemptions, deductions or
abatements. |
83. Appeal to specially constituted court against Com-
muissioner’s decision.
$4. Summoning of witnesses and penalty for non-
85. Contempt of Special Court.
&6. 4 hae in eo of law.
87. Members of courts disqualified from adjudicating.
88. Payment of tax pending appeal.
PART IV.
Payment and Recovery of Tax.
£9. Appointment of day for payment of tax.
90. Persons by whom normal tax payable.
9]. Recovery of tax. wR
92. Correctness of assessment cannot be questioned.
93. Collection of taxes under arrangements made under
section 108.
94, Evidence as to assessments. | |
PART F.
Representative Taxpayers. | |
95. Liability of representative taxpayer.
96. Right of representative taxpayer to indemnity. |
97. Personal liability of representative taxpayer. |
98, Company aoa ded as agent for absent shareholder.
99. Power to appoint agent.
100. Remedies of Commissioner against agent or trustee,
101. Public officers of compantes.
2 |

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29mu- MAY,-1962 19 |
Section.
103. Transactions, operations or schemes for purposes of
| avoiding or postponing liability for or reducing
amounts of taxes on, income.
104. Offences penalties.
105. Jurisdiction of courts. :
106. Authentication and service of documents.
LO7. Regulations.
108. Prevention of or relief from double taxation,
109. Prevention of or relief from double taxation in the
_ Republic and South West Africa.
110. Determination of increase in scale of taxation for |
ct ai of certain leases of the right to mine for
gold. |
111. Repeal of laws. |
112, Short title and commencement, |
FIRST SCHEDULE.
Computation of taxable income derived from pastoral,
agricultural or other farming operations.
Computation of gross income derived by way of lump
sum benefits from pension, provident and retirement
THIRD SCHEDULE.
Laws repealed.
BE IT ENACTED by the State President, the Senate and the
House of Assembly of the Republic of South Africa,
as follows:—
PRELIMINARY.
1. In this Act, unless the context otherwise indicates— Interpretation.
(i) “agent” includes any partnership or company or any
other body of persons corporate or unincorporate
acting as an agent; (iv)
(i) “assessment” means—
(a) the determination of an amount upon which any
tax leviable under this Act is chargeable; or
(5) the determination of poy se ranking for set-off,
and for the purposes of Part III of Chapter ITI includes
any determination by the Commissioner in respect
of any of the deductions referred to in section six; (ii)
(iii) “benefit fund" means—
(a) any friendly society registered under the Friendly |
Societies Act, 1956 (Act No. 25 of 1956); or
(6) any fund which is not so registered solely because
of the provisions of Popa eg (a) of sub-section
(2) of section two of the said Act; or
(c) any fund (other than a pension fund, provident
respect of the year of assessment in question, the
Commissioner is satisfied is a permanent fund
bona fide established for the purpose of providing
sickness, accident or unemployment benefits for
its members, or a for such a purpose and
also for the purpose of providing benefits for the
widows, children, dependants or nominees of
deceased members: (xii)
(iv) “Commissioner” means the Commissioner for Inland
Revenue; (xxv)
(¥) “company” includes—
(a) any association incorporated by or under any law
in force in the Republic or in any part thereof ,
or registered or deemed to be registered under
any such law; or

}
GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY, 1962 21
(6) any association incorporated or registered outside
the Republic which carries on business or has an
office or place of business in the Republic or
derives income from any source within or deemed
to be within the Republic or in which any person |
ordinarily resident or carrying on business in the
eee blic is interested as a shareholder or mem-
er: OF | |
(c) any association which is incorporated or registered ,
outside the Republic and 1s a shareholder in or
member of any company as defined in paragraph 3
(a) or ©), either directly, or indirectly by reason
of the fact that it is a shareholder in or member
of any other company; or
(¢) any association (not being an association referred
to in paragraph (a2) or an association to which
the provisions of paragraph (e) of sub-section . i] !
of section fen apply) formed in the Republic :
to serve a specified purpose, beneficial to the
public or a section of the public; (xxvi)
(vi) “date of deep level production”, in relation to any
deep level gold mine, means the date which the
Government Mining Engineer certifies as the date on ,
which stoping below a vertical depth of seven thousand
five huieed feet from the surface commenced: (xiii)
(vil) “dependant”, in relation to any taxpayer means—
(a) any person (other than any child or stepchild of
such taxpayer in respect of whom he is for the :
year of assessment entitled to a rebate in terms
of paragraph (c) of sub-section (1) of section
six), incapacitated by old age, infirmity or any |
other reason satisfactory to the Commissioner | |
from maintaining himself; and
(5) any child (other than a child or stepchild of
such taxpayer) under the age of eighteen years
on the last day of the year of assessment, |
towards whose maintenance the taxpayer has expended
in cash or otherwise during the year of assessment
not less than sixty rand; (iii)
(viii) “dividend” means any amount distributed by a |
company (not being a permanent building society or |
an association or institution to which paragraph (d) |
of sub-section (1) of section fen srelinn to its share-
holders, and in this definition the expression
“amount distributed” includes—
(2) in relation to a company that is being wound up
or liquidated, any profits distributed, whether |
in cash or otherwise, other than those of a
capital nature, earned before or during the
winding up or liquidation; | :
(5) in relation to a company that is not being wound
up or liquidated, any profits distributed, whether
in cash or otherwise, and whether of a capital
nature or not, including an amount equal to the
nominal value of any bonus shares, debentures
or securities awarded to the shareholders:
(c) in the event of the partial reduction of the capital |
of a company, any cash or the value of any asset
which is given to a shareholder in excess of the
cash equivalent of the nominal value by which |
the shares of that shareholder are reduced; and
(7) in the event of the reconstruction of a company,
any cash or the value of any asset which is given 3
a shareholder in excess of the nominal value
of the shares held by him before the reconstruc-
tion,
but does not include—
(e) the nominal value of any bonus shares awarded
to a shareholder to the extent to which such
shares have been paid up by means of the applica-
tion of the whole or any portion of the share
premium account of a company; or
(f) any cash or the value of any asset given to a |
shareholder to the extent to which the cash or the
value of the asset represents a reduction of the .
share premium account of a company; or
(zg) the nominal value of any bonus shares awarded
to a shareholder as part of the equity share
capital of a company by a company which ts
recognized as a public company in terms of
section fhirty-eight; (xiv) |

(ix) “equity share capital” means, in relation to any
company, its tssued share capital excluding any part
thereof which, pone as respects dividends nor as
respects capital, carries any right to participate
beyond a specified amount in a distribution, and the

expression “equity shares” shall be construed accord-
ingly; (xxiv)

(x) “executor” means any person to whom letters of
administration have been granted by a Master or an
Assistant Master of the Supreme Court appointed
under the Administration of Estates Act, 1913 (Act
No. 24 of 1913), in respect of the estate of a deceased
person under any law relating to the administration
of estates, and includes a person acting or authorized
to act under letters of administration granted outside
the Republic but signed and sealed by such a Master or
Assistant Master for use within the Republic and, in
any case where the estate 1s not required to be ad- |
ministered under the supervision of such a Master
or Assistant Master, the person administering the } )
estate; (xv)

(xi) “gross income”, in relation to any year or period
of assessment, means, in the case of any person, |
the total amount, in cash or otherwise, received
by or accrued to or in favour of such person during
such year or period of assessment from a source
within or deemed to be within the Republic, excluding
receipts or accruals of a capital nature, but including,
without in any way limiting the scope of this defi-
ution, such amounts (whether of a capital nature
or not) so received or accrued as are described here-
under, namely—

(a) any amount received or accrued by way of annuity;
(6) any amount payable to the taxpayer by his spouse
or former spouse, under any judicial aie or
written agreement of separation or under any
order of divorce, by way of alimony or allow-
ance or maintenance of the taxpayer or any
. ¢) any amount, including any voluntary award,
received or accrued in respect of services ren-
dered or to rendered: Provided that any
amount received by or accrued to an employee,
upon and because of the termunation of his
services, by way of bonus, gratwity or com-
pensation, shall be deemed to be received or
to accrue in three successive equal annual in-
stalments of which the first instalment shall
be deemed to have been received or to have
accrued on the date of receipt or accrual of
such amount and the subsequent instalments
on the anniversary of that date, if—

(i) the emnaree of the services of —
employee is due to superannuation, ill
hedith or infirmity; or

(ii) the Commissioner is satisfied that the cir- ,
cumstances of the case warrant this con-
cession, ’

and for the purposes of this paragraph an
amount whi ch but for the oneal of ag =

Tax Act, 1941, would have deemed to

have been received or to have accrued on. any

date in terms of the proviso to paragraph (5)

of the definition of “gross income” in section
seven of that Act, shall be deemed to have
been received or to have accrued on the said
date in terms of this paragraph;

(7) any amount, including any voluntary award,

“ ecined or Btn Mace of the sclimenadle
ment, termination, loss, repudiation, cancel-
lation or variation of any office or employ-
raf or of a appointment (or ip att claim
to be appointed) to any office or employment:

Provided that 4 provisions of this paragraph

shall not apply to any lump sum award from
any pension fund, provident fund, retirement
. annuity fund or benefit fund;

GOVERNMENT GAZETIE EXTRAORDINARY, 297TH MAY, 1962 25
(e) any amount determined in accordance with the
provisions of the Second Schedule in respect
of lump sum benefits received by iaeunl te
such person from any fund (not being a super-
annuation, 1on, provident, widows’ or or-
phans’ fund established by law) which has in
respect of the current or any previous year
of assessment been approved by the Com-
missioner, whether under this Act or any pre-
vious Income Tax Act, as a pension fund, provi-
dent fund or retirement annuity fund, if such
person was a member of such fund during any
such year: Provided that the provisions of para-
_ (gz) of section nine shall mutatis mutandis
apply in the case of any amount determined ]
as aforesaid:
(/) any amount received or accrued in commu-
tation of amounts due under any contract
of employment or service; }
(z) any amount received or accrued from another
person, as premium or like consideration paid
by such other person—
(1) for the right of use or occupation of land
or buildings: or
(i) for the right of use of plant or machinery;
Or
(iii) for the right of use of any patent as defined
in the Patents Act, 1952 (Act No. 37 of
| 1952), or any design, trade mark or copy-
SS it as defined in the Designs, Trade |
Marks and Copyright Act, 1916 (Act No. |
9 of 1916), or any other property which,
in the opinion of the Commissioner, is
of a similar nature; or
(iv) for the imparting of or the undertaking |
to impart any knowledge directly or in- |
directly connected with the use of any such
patent, design, trade mark, copyright or
other property as aforesaid;
(f) in the case of any person to whom, in terms
of any agreement relating to the grant to any
other person of the right of use or occupation |
of land or buildings, or by virtue of the cession
of any rights under any such agreement, there
has accrued in any such year or period the
right to have improvements effected on the
land or to the buildings by any other person—
(i) the amount stipulated in the agreement
as the value of the improvements or as
the amount to be expended on the im- ,
a pre cements OF
(1) 1f no amount is so stipulated, an amount
representing in the opinion of the Com-
missioner the fair and reasonable value
of the improvements;
(f) the annual value of any quarters or board or , |
residence am of any ome mat or advan-
tage granted in respect of employment;
(i) hong Snnient be: ‘arkich secrete of capital
expenditure which has been allowed be
deducted under paragraph (a) of section fifteen
or the corresponding provisions of any previous
Income Tax Act, exceed the unredeemed balance
of such capital expenditure calculated as pro-
vided in section firty-six:
(k) any amount received or accrued by way of
dividends, including any dividends distributed
by a private company out of or by way of capi-
talzation of any profits of such ge i
which in terms of section fhirty-seven of the
a Tax ee (Act No. 31 of 1941),
ad previously been apportioned among its
chavelesldars a the taxable income or the in-
come subject to super tax of such company, |
and for the purposes of this paragraph all divi-
dends from sources outside the Republic received | |
by or accrued to any person (other than a com-
pany) who is ordinarily resident in the ge blic |
shall be deemed to have been received by or
to have accrued to such person from a source
within the Republic;

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINAR ¥, 29TH MAY, 1962 27
(f) any amount received or accrued by way of
grant or subsidy in respect of any of the matters
mentioned in items (a) to (i), inclusive, of sub-
yy eg (1) of paragraph 12 of the First
(mm) any amount received or accrued under or gs
the surrender or disposal of any pene? in-
surance po the life of an ara. or, im
the case of a company, upon the life of a director
or employee of that company;
(n) any amount which in terms of any other pro-
vision of this Act is specifically required to be
included in the taxpayer's income, and for the
purposes of this paragraph all amounts which
in terms of sub-section (4) of section eight
are required to be included in the taxpayer's
; income shall be to have been received
by or to have accrued to the taxpayer from
a source within the Republic ae
that such amounts may have been recoverec
or recouped outside the Republic; (x1)
(xu) “hotelkeeper’’ means any person carrying on the
\ eens of noaesenee” or boarding or lodging
house keeper where meals and sleeping accom-
modation are supplied to others for money or its
equivalent, if such person is the holder of a licence
issued under the provisions of Item 4 of Part I of
the Second Schedule to the Licences Act, 1962, :
in respect of that Business, and includes in respect
of any year of assessment any person who is not -
a holder of such a licence by reason of the fact that
the peeling which the business is carried on has
been in the course of erection or extensively
fenovated or that the provisions of exemption
(1) to the said Item apply, if the Commissioner |
is satisiied that during the immediately succeeding
. Year of assessment or such further period as he may
for good reason allow, the gross receipts from that
business will be or could be expected to be in excess
of two thousand rand per annum; (xxi)
(xiii) “income” means the amount remaining of the
gross income of any person for any year or period
of assessment after deducting therefrom any amounts
exempt from normal tax under Part I of Chapter |
(xiv) “local authority" means any divisional council, ,
rural council, municipal council, town council,
village council, town board, local board, village
“are eee board, health committee or school
: board or any district council or any local or penerai
council established or deemed to have been estab-
lished under the Native Affairs Act, 1959 (Act No. |
55 of 1959), and includes the Rand Water Board:
(xxxii)
(xv) “marred” includes joined together in a wnlon recog-
nized as a marriage in accordance with any law or
custom, and “husband”, “wife” or “spouse” shall
be construed accordingly; (xvi)
(xvi) “married person” means any person who— |
.(a) during any portion of the period in respect
of which ~~ assessment is made was married
or was a widower or a widow: or
(5) during the whole of such period was divorced
or separated under a judicial order or written
agreement, and who is entitled to any deduction
in respect of a child under paragraph (c) of
sub-section (1) of section six; (xvii) }
(xvii) “mining for gold” or “to mine for gold” includes
mining for uranium or to mine for uranium; (xviii)
(xviii) “mining operations” and “mining” include every
method or process by which any mineral is won from
the soil or from any substance or constituent there-
Of; (xxvil)
(xix) “new deep level gold mine” means any new gold
mine in respect of which—
- (a) the Governor-General, the State President or
the Minister of Mines has after. the thirtieth
day of June, 1956, on the recommendation

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY, 1962 29
of the Mining Leases Board signified in writing
his decision to grant a lease of the right to mine
for gold; and
(5) the Government Mining Engineer is satisfied
that, at the time the decision to grant the lease
was signified, the principal object was to mine
gold bearing ores believed to exist within the
lease area at depths below a vertical depth of
seven thousand five hundred feet from the
surface: and
(c) the Government Mining Engineer 1s at the time
the decision to grant the lease is signified, of
the opinion fe age of at least seven gp will
elapse from the date upon which shaft sinking
excavations commence to the date of deep level
(xx) “new gold mine” means an ag een workable
proposition in respect of which the Governor-General,
the State President or the Minister of Mines has,
after the twenty-eighth day of February, 1946, on
the recommendation of the Mining Leases Board
signified in writing his decision grant a lease of
the right to mine for gold, and includes any other
eid ng which, in the opinion of the es
lining Engineer, is an independent workable pro-
position which was established as such after the
said date; (xxix)
(xxi) “other deep level gold mine” means any producing
gold mine (other than a new deep level gold mine)
in respect of which the Government Mining Engi-
neer has upon ne to him recognized
that its principal object is the mining of gold bearin :
ores at vertical depths exceeding seven thousand
five hundred feet from the surface and in respect
of which he is satisfied, at the time the ow
is lodged with him, that mining at such depths has
commenced or will be commenced within a period :
of five years; (¥) |
(xxii) “pension fund” means a superannuation, pension, |
sovident, widows’ or orphans’ fund established |
lan: and any fund (other than a retirement annuity :
fund) not established by law which is tte
the Commissioner in respect of the year of assess-
ment in question: Provided that the Commissioner |
may approve a fund subject to such limitations
or conditions as he may determine, and shall not
Sppecty & ENS Se NRE OF Sy Yont 5 Seeeverseae |
un he is in respect of that year of assessment
(a) that the fund is a permanent fund bona fide
established for the purpose of providing annuities
for employees on retirement from employment
or for widows, children, dependants or nominees
of deceased employees, or mainly for the said
purpose and also for the purpose of providing
benefits other than annuities for the persons
aforesaid; and
(4) that the rules of the fund provide— :
(i) that all annual contributions of a recurrent
nature to the fund shall be in accordance
with specified scales;
(ii) that membership of the fund throughout
the period of employment shall be a con-
dition of the employment by the employer
of all persons of the class or classes specified
therein who enter his employment on or
after the date upon which the fund comes
into operation;
(iii) ap pe who mink oe to
the sand date were employed by the employe
and who on the date fall within the
said class or classes may, on application
made within a period of not more than
twelve months as from the said date, be
permitted to become members of the fund
on such conditions as may be specified in

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY, 1962 31
(iv) that not more than one-third of the total
value of the annuity or annuities to which
any employee becomes entitled, may be
commuted for a single Payeeat, except
where the annual amount of such annuity
or annuities docs not exceed sixty rand;
(v) for the pectin _ = in such
a manner as to preclude the em T, except
in the case ofa toca authority, fein cuniral-
os the management or assets of the fund
nd from deriving any monetary advantage
— moneys paid into or out of the fund;
” :
(vi) that the Commissioner shall be notified
of all amendments of the rules; and
(c) that the rules of the fund have been complied ,
with; (xxx) | |
(xxi) “person” includes the estate of a deceased per-
(xxiv) “prescribed” means prescribed or deemed to be
prescribed by or under this Act; una
(xxv) “provident fund” means any fund (other than
a pension fund, benefit fund or retirement annuity
fund) which is approved by the Commissioner in
respect of the year of assessment in question: Provided
that the Commissioner may approve a fund subject
to such limitations or conditions as he may deter-
mine, and shall not approve a fund in respect of
any year of assessment unless he is in respect of
that year of assessment satisfied— :
(a) that the fund is a permanent fund bona fide |
established solely for the purpose of providing
benefits for employees on retirement from
loyment or solely for the A tt of pro-
viding benefits for widows, children, depen-
dants or nominees of deceased employees or
deceased former employees or solely for a
combination of such purposes; and
(5) that the rules of the fund contain provisions
similar in all respects to those required to be
vi grr in the “gg a pension f + and. (vit
' §ub-paragraphs (i), (i), (ui), (vv) and (vi)
of cmaarank ) of te dea siti of sl
fund"; and _
(c) that the rules of the fund have been complied
with; (xxxviil) ae
(xxvi) “regulation” means a regulation in force under
(xxvul) “representative taxpayer” means—
(a) in respect of the income of a company, the public
officer thereof; , |
(5) in respect of the income under his management,
disposition or control, the agent of any person,
including an agent appointed as such under
the provisions of section ninety-nine, and for
the purposes of this baraaeaph the term “agent”
includes every person in the Republic having :
the receipt, management or control of income ,
on behalf of any person permanently or tem- |
porarily absent from the Republic or remitting .
or paying income to or receiving moneys for
such person;
(c) in respect of income the subject of any trust
or in respect of the income of any minor or men-
tally disordered or defective ears or any
other person under legal disability, the trustee,
guardian, curator or other person entitled to
the reccipt, management, disposal or control
of such income or remitting or paying to or
receiving moneys on behalf of such person under
disability:
(dq) in respect of income paid under the decree or
order of any court or judge to any receiver :
or other person, such receiver or person, who-
ever may be entitled to the benefit of such in- |
come, and whether or not it accrues fo any ,
Person on a contingency or an uncertain event;
(e) in respect of the income received by or accrued
to any person during his lifetime and
the income received by or accrued to the estate ,
of any deceased person, the executor or adminis-
trator of the estate of such deceased person,

but nothing in this definition shall be construed as re-
lieving any person from any lability, responsibility :
or duty imposed upon him by this hice tree)
a than a pension fund, provident fund or benefit
und) which is approved by the Commissioner in
respect of the year of assessment in question: Provided
that the Commissioner may approve a fund subject
to such limitations or conditions as he may determine,
and shall not approve any fund in respect of any
year Of assessment unless he is in respect of that year
of assessment satisfied— 7
(a) that the fund is a permanent fund bona fide ,
established for the sole purpose of providing
life annuities for the members of the fund or
annuities for the widows, children, dependants ,
or nominees of deceased members; and
(6) that the rules of the fund provide—
(i) for periodical contributions by the members
and for additional contributions made by
way Of transfer of members’ interests in .
approved pension funds, provident funds
or other retirement annuity funds;
(ii) that not more than one-third of the total
value of any annuities to which any person |
becomes entitled, may be commuted for
a single payment, except where the annual
amount of such annuities does not exceed
sixty rand;
(ii) that no portion of any annuity payable
to the widow, child, dependant or nominee |
of a deceased member may be commuted
later than six months from the date of the
Gv) death of such member; ~~
(iv) adequate security to safeguard the interests
of persons who may become entitled to
annuities: |
(v) that no member shall become entitled |
to the payment of any annuity after he |
reaches the age of seventy years or, except |
in the case of a member who becomes
permanently incapable through infirmity
of mind or body of carrying on his occu- :
pation, before he reaches the age of fifty-
(vi) that where a member dies before he be-
comes entitled to the payment of an annuity,
the benefits shall not a refund to
his estate or to his widow, children, de-
pendants or nominees of the sum of the
amounts (with or without reasonable interest
thereon) contributed by him and an annuity
or annuities to his widow, children, depen- |
 dants or nominees:
(vu) that where a member dies after he has ,
become entitled to an annuity no further !
benefit shall be payable other than an
annuity or annuities to his widow, children,
dependants or nominees;
(vin) that the sum of the annuities payable
to the widow, children, dependants and ,
nominees of a deceased member who was |
in receipt of an annuity at the time of his
death shall not exceed the amount of that , :
annuity: }
(ix) that a member's contributions shall cease
as s00n as he becomes entitled to the pay-
ment of an annuity;
(x) that a member who discontinues his con- |
tributions prematurely shall be entitled
either to an annuity (payable from the
date on which he would have become
entitled to the payment of an annuity if |
he had continued his contributions) deter-
mined in relation to his actual contri- |
butions or to be reinstated as a full member
of the fund; , a
(xi) that upon the winding up of the fund a
member's interest therein must either be
used to purchase a policy of insurance |

which the Commissioner is satisfied pro-
vides benefits similar to those provided
by such fund or be paid for the member's
benefit into another approved retirement
(xii) that save as is contemplated in sub-paragraph | _
ct, no member's rights to benefits shall
e capable of surrender, commutation or
assignment or of being pledged as security
for any loan: |
(xiii) that the Commissioner shall be notified |
of all amendments of the rules; and
(c) that the rules of the fund have been complied
with; (xxxv)

(xxix) “scientific research” means any activity in the
field of natural or applied science for the extension
of knowledge; (xxxix)

(xxx) “shareholder”, in relation to any company, means
the registered shareholder in respect of an ny share,
a that where some person other than the regis-
tered shareholder is entitled, whether by virtue
of any provision in the memorandum or articles
of association of the company or under the terms
of any papas or contract or otherwise, to all
or part of the benefit of the rights of participation |
the profits or income attaching to the share |
registered, such other person shall, the extent
that he is entitled to such benefits, also be deemed
to be a shareholder: (i)

: (xxxi) “specified date”, in respect of any year of assess-
ment, means the thirtieth day of June, or, if the
returns of any company are under the proviso to
sub-section (13) of section sixty-six accepted in
respect of a period ending on some other date, such
other date, or, in the case of any company which
has been required to furnish interim accounts in
terms of sub-section (4) of that section, the date
up to which such accounts have been rendered: (x)

(xxxii) “tax” or “the tax” or “taxation” means any levy
or tax leviable under this Act; (vin)

(xxxiii) “taxable income” means the amount remaining
after deducting from the income of any person
all the amounts allowed to be deducted or set off
under Part [ of Chapter II; (vii)

Xxxiv) “taxpayer” means any person chargeable with

( a ra viable under this Act and, for the a a
of any provision relating to any return, includes
every person required by this Act to furnish such
return; (ix)

(xxxv) “this Act” includes the regulations; (xx)

(xxxvi) “trade” includes every profession, trade, business,
employment, calling, occupation or venture, in-
cluding the letting of any property and the use of
or the grant of permission to use any patent as defined
in the Patents Act, 1952 (Act No. 37 of 1952), or
any design, trade mark or copyright as defined in
the Designs, Trade Marks and Copyright Act, 1916
(Act No. 9 of 1916), or any other property which
in the opinion of the Commissioner is of a similar
catare:

(xxxvil) “trading stock’ includes anything produced,
seam ig Boreas or in any oS
acquire a taxpayer for purposes of manufacture,
sale or exchange by him age his behalf, or the

sroceeds from the disposal of which forms or will
form part of his gross income; (xix)

(xxxvill) “trustee”, in addition to every person appointed
or constituted as such by act of parties, will, by
order or declaration of court or by operation of
law, includes an executor or administrator, tutor or
curator, and any person having the administration
or control of any property subject to a trust, usufruct,
fideicommissum or other limited interest or acting .
in any fiduciary capacity or having, either in a private

:; or in an official capacity, the possession, direction,
control or management of any property of any
person under legal disability; (ocuv)

(xxxix) “year of assessment” means any period of twelve
months in respect of which any tax or duty leviable |
under this Act is chargeable. (xxiii)

The Commissioner shall be responsible for carrying ne 2d ‘
out the provisions of this Act. | “em wine ently

(2) A notice in the Gazetfe that any acs has been appointed

1 to hold office as Commissioner for Inland Revenue or to act
in that capacity, shall be conclusive evidence of such appoint-
ment without further proof,

3. (1) The powers conferred and the duties imposed upon Exercise of
the Commissioner by or under the provisions of this Act oa A
or any amendment thereof may be exercised or performed gues
by the Commissioner personally, or by any officer engaged 1
In carrying out the said provisions under the control, direction
or supervision of the Commissioner.

(2) Any decision made and any notice or communication
issued or signed by any such officer may be withdrawn or
amended by the Commussioner or by the officer concerned,
and shall for the purposes of the said provisions, until it has
been so withdrawn, be deemed to have been made, issued
or signed by the Commussioner: Provided that a decision made
by any such officer in the exercise of any discretionary power
under the provisions of this Act or of any previous Income
Tax Act shall not be withdrawn or amended after the expi-
ration of two years from the date of the written notification
of such decision or of the notice of assessment giving effect
thereto, if all the material facts were known to the said officer
when he made his decision.

(3) Any written decision made by the Commissioner per-
sonally in the exercise of any discretionary power under the
provisions of this Act or of any Foy erage Income Tax Act
shall not be withdrawn or amended by the Commissioner
if all the material facts were known to him when he made
his decision.

4, (1) Every person employed in carrying out the provi- Preservation of
sions of this Act shall preserve and aid in preserving secrecy *“T¢Y-
with regard to all matters that may come to his knowledge
in the performance of his duties in connection with those
provisions, and shall not communicate any such matter to
any person whatsoever other than the taxpayer concerned
or his lawful representative nor suffer or permit any such
person to have to any records in the possession or
custody of the Commissioner except in the performance
of his duties under this Act or by order of a competent court:
Provided that any information obtained by the Coititaladiest
in the performance of his duties under the provisions of this
Act or any previous Income Tax Act may be used by him for
the purposes of the provisions of any other fiscal law adminis-
tered by him: Provided further that the Controller and Auditor-
General shall in the performance of his duties in terms of
sub-section (1) of section eleven of the Exchequer and Audit
Act, 1956 (det No. 23 of 1956), have access to documents
in the possession or custody of the Commissioner.

(2) (a) Every person so employed shall, before acting

a) ¢ tee the Act, take and subeeribe before a magis-

trate or justice of the peace, such oath of fidelity
or secrecy as may be prescribed.

(5) Any oath of secrecy taken and subscribed under
the provisions of any previous Income Tax Act
by any person who is employed in carrying out the
provisions of this Act shall be deemed to be an oath
taken and subscribed in terms of this sub-section.

(3) Every person who in contravention of the provisions
of this section or of the true intent of the oath of fidelity or
secrecy taken by him, and without lawful excuse, reveals
any matter or ~_ which has come to his knowledge in the
course of his official duties to any person whatsoever or suffers
or permits any person to have access to any records in the
possession or custody of the Commussioner, shall be guilty
of an offence and liable on conviction to imprisonment for
4 period not exceeding two years.

(4) Any person who acts in the execution of his office before
he has taken the prescribed oath shall be guilty of an offence
and liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty rand.

PART J.

5. (1) There shall be paid annually for the benefit of the Levy of normal
Consolidated Revenue Fund, an income tax (in this Act re- ge rates
ferred to as the normal tax) in respect of the taxable income ~ aan
received by or accrued to or in favour of any person during
the year of assessment ending the thirtieth day of June, 1962,
and each succeeding year of assessment,

(2) The rates of tax chargeable in respect of each year of
assessment shall be fixed annually by Parliament, but the
rates fixed by any Act of Parliament im respect of any year
of assessment shall be deemed to continue in force until the
next such determination of rates and shall be applied for the
purpose of calculating the tax payable in respect of any taxable
Income received by or accrued to or in favour of any person
during the next succeeding year of assessment if, in the opinion
of the Commissioner, the calculation and collection of the
tax chargeable in respect of such taxable income cannot with-
out risk of loss of revenue be postponed until after the rates
for that year have been determined: Provided that after the
next such determination of rates any tax paid in pursuance
such interim application shall be adjusted in accordance
with such subsequent rates, any amounts paid in excess being
refunded and any amounts short-paid being recoverable
from the taxpayer concerned.

6. (1) Save as is otherwise provided in this Act, there shall, Mormal tax
in the case of a person other than a company, be deducted "ates
from the amount of tax payable under section jire— |

(a) in the case of a married person, the sum of sixty-
two rand;

(5) in the case of a person other than a married person,
the sum of forty-six rand;

(c) in respect of each child or stepchild of the taxpayer
who was alive during any portion of the year of
ae for which the assessment is made, and
who—

(i) on the last day of that year of assessment was
unmarried and was not or would not had he
lived have been over the age of eighteen years,
or, if he was wholly dependent for his mainte-
nance upon the taxpayer, over the age of twenty-
one years, or, if he was wholly dependent for
maintenance upon the taxpayer and the Com-
missioner is satisfied that he was a full-time
student at an educational institution of a public
character, over the age of twenty-four years;
or

(i) in the case of any other child or stepchild was
incapacitated by mental or physical infirmity
from maintaining himself and was wholly depen-
dent for his maintenance upon the taxpayer,

the sum of thirty-four rand: Provided that where

the taxpayer is entitled to a deduction in respect
of more than two children in terms of this para-
graph, the deduction to be allowed in respect of
each child in excess of two shall be thirty-nine rand:
Provided further that a parent who has been divorced
or s¢parated under a judicial order or written agrec-
ment shall not be Oe the deduction in respect
of any child born of the marriage which has been
dissolved by the order of divorce or to which the
order or agreement of separation relates, unless
he has maintained such child during such period
and the cost of such maintenance has not in terms
of section fwerty-one been deducted from his income:

(d@) in respect of —

(i) premiums paid by such pero during the year
of assessment upon policies under which he
his wife or any children or stepchildren
referred to in paragraph (c) is are insured
against death, accident or sickness:

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY, 1962 4

(ii) fees, subscriptions or contributions paid by
him a that year to any provident fund
or benefit fund (other than a benefit fund refer-
_e to in paragraph (a) of section eighteen);
rea!

(ii) contributions made by him during that year
as an employee to any fund established under
any law in force in the Republic relating to
unemployment insurance,

a sum equal to seven per cent of the amount paid

In respect of such  wageser ra fees, subscriptions

or contributions, in the calculation of which sum

a fraction of a rand included in the amount so paid

Shall be regarded as a completed rand, and sublect

to a maximum deduction of seventeen rand: Provided
that no allowance shall be made in respect of in-
surance under a polic of motor insurance, nor
under any other policy, if the amount paid as premium

. for such other policy has been allowed as a deduction
from the income of the taxpayer under the pro-
visions of section efeven;

(e) in respect of each dependant the sum of six rand;
and

Cf) in respect of any one or more dependants who are
proved to the satisfaction of the Commissioner
to have been wholly dependent for their maintenance
upon the taxpayer, a further sum of sixteen rand

Irrespective of the number of such dependants.

(2) In any case in which the period assessed is less than
twelve months, the deductions allowed under paragraphs
(a), (5), (c), (e) and (/) of sub-section (1) shall be such amounts
as bear to the full amount of the respective deductions pro-
vided for under the said paragraphs, the same ratio as the
period assessed bears to twelve months, unless, in the case
of any such period terminating at the death of the taxpayer
or commencing at the death of the spouse of the taxpayer,
the Commissioner in the special circumstances of the case
otherwise directs.

7. (1) Income shall be deemed to have accrued to a person When income is
notwithstanding that such income has been invested, accumu- deemed to have
lated or otherwise capitalized by him or that such income -ipinky “tong
has not been actually paid over to him but remains due and received,
payable to him or has been credited in account or reinvested
or accumulated or capitalized or otherwise dealt with in his
fame or on his behalf, and a complete statement of all such
income shall be included by any person in the returns rendered
him under this Act.

(2) Any income received by or accrued to or in favour
of a woman married with or without community of property
and not separated from her husband under a judicial order
or written agreement of separation shall deemed for the
purposes of this Act to be income accrued to her husband.

(3) Income shall be deemed to have been received by the
parent of any minor child, if by reason of any donation, settle-
ment or other disposition sande by that parent of that child—

(a) it has been received by or has accrued to or in favour
of that child or has been expended for the mainte-
nance, education or benefit of that child; or
(6) it has been accumulated for the benefit of that child. | :

(4) Any income received by or accrued to or in favour
of any minor child of any person, by reason of any donation,
settlement or other disposition made by any other person, :

| shall be deemed to be the income of the parent of such minor
child, if such parent or his spouse has made a donation, settle-
ment or other disposition or given some other consideration
in favour directly or indirectly of the said other person or
his family.

(5) If any person has in any deed of donation, settlement
or other disposition made a stipulation to the effect that the
beneficiaries thereof or some of them shall not receive the
income or some portion of the income thereunder until the
happening of some event, whether fixed or contingent, so
much of any income as would, but for such stipulation,
in consequence of the donation, settlement or other disposition
be received by or accrue to or in favour of the beneficiaries,

Shall, until the happening of that event or the death of that
person, whichever first takes place, be deemed to be the income
(6) If any deed of donation, settlement or other disposition
contains any stipulation that the right to receive any income
thereby conferred may, under powers retained by the person
by whom that right is conferred, be revoked or conferred
upon another, so much of any income as in consequence of
the donation, settlement or other disposition is received
by or accrues to or in favour of the person on whom that
right is conferred, shall be deemed to be the income of the
person by whom it is conferred, so long as he retains those
powers.
_8, (1) So much of any amount which has been paid by any Certals exsounts
person as an allowance or advance to a director, manager, ;- Sacra in
employee or other person in respect of expenses of travel- pasabin income.
ling, entertainment or other service, as the Commissioner
is not satisfied was actually expended by the recipient on such
travelling or entertainment or in the pesteaiosnes of such
service, shall be deemed to be part of taxable income of
the recipient.
(2) If, within the period of ten years from the date of the
award by any company of any bonus shares which in terms
of paragraph (¢) of the definition of “dividend” in section
one or the corresponding provisions of any previous Income
Tax Act did not rank as a dividend, any cash or any asset is given
to any shareholder of that company in consequence oF the
liquidation or reconstruction of the company or the partial
reduction of its share — the taxable income of the com-
pany shall, subject to the provisions of sub-section (3), be
deemed to include— |
(a) in the case of the reconstruction of the company
or the partial reduction of its share cape an amount
equal to the sum of the amount of any such cash
and the value of any such asset, but not exceeding
the nominal value of such bonus shares (excluding
any such shares awarded out of share premium
account); and ,
(5) in the case of the liquidation of the company, if the
Commissioner 1s satisied that such liquidation is ,
bona fide and was not brought about solely or mainly
for the purpose of avoiding liability for tax under
this sub-section, the amount by which the sum of
all the amounts of any such cash and the value of
all such assets so given to shareholders (in so far as
that amount does not exceed the nominal value of
the bonus shares so awarded to shareholders, exclud-
Ing any such shares awarded out of share premium
account) exceeds the sum of the paid-up capital and
the amount standing to the credit of share premium
account of the company immediately prior to the
commencement of the liquidation of the company, :
or, if the Commissioner 15 not so satisfied, an amount
determined as provided in paragraph (a).
3) (a2) The provisions of sub-section (2) shall not ap
ig oD eens any cash or asset referred . therein is ee |
(i) in respect of any class of redeemable share
capital issued before the first day of July, 1957, 7
in pursuance of special provisions prescribed
before that date for the repayment of such a
capital; or
(ii) in respect of any class of redeemable share
capital issued on or after the first day of July,
1957, for the repayment of which special pro-
visions are contained in the memorandum and
articles of association of the company, if the
holders of the equity share capital of the company
were not cither at the time of the award of such
bonus shares or at any time thereafter share-
holders in that class of redeemable share capital.
(6) For the purposes of sub-section (2) “paid-up capital”
means the nominal value of A asta capital,
excluding 50 much of the nominal value of any bonus
shares as did mot rank as a dividend in terms of
paragraph (g) of the definition of “dividend” in
section one or the corresponding provisions of any

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 291] MAY, 1962 45

(c) The decision of the Commissioner in the exercise of
his discretion under sub-section (2) shall be subject
to objection and appeal.

(4) (a) There shall be included in the taxpayer's income all
amounts allowed to be deducted or set off under the
provisions of ae oy aed a a, get eg
except paragraphs (&), (p) and of section eleven,
iiaion ‘Q) of ie hice or the said sub-
section as applied by sub-section (3) of that section,
or sub-section (5) of section hirteen, or under the
corresponding provisions of any previous Income
Tax Act, whether in the current or any previous
year of assessment, which have been recovered or
recouped during the current year of assessment.

(6) If any amount referred to in paragraph (a) of this
SY secaes, a amount lg as recovered
or recouped during any year of assessment a
person referred to in en Be ia (c) of erent
as a result of the loss, sale or disposal in any other
manner by that person of a ship, and if that person
satishes the Commussioner that—

(i) he will within a period of one year (or such
longer period as the Commissioner in the circum-
stances of the case may allow) after the end of
that year of assessment conclude a contract for
the acquisition by him of a ship to replace the
aforesaid ship;

(ii) such ship will be used by him for the purposes
of his trade for a period of not less than ten
years; and

(iii) such ship will be a ship in relation to which
the provisions of paragraph (4) of section fourteen
will apply and will continue to apply for the said
perio not less than ten years,

the said amount shall, notwithstanding anything to

the contrary contained in paragraph (a), but subject

to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d), not be

included in the income of that person for the aforesaid
eg of assessment, but shall be included in his

or the period of assessment ending on the date of his

death, insolvency or liquidation (in the case of a

(c) Within three months after the end of the year of assess-
ment during which any amount aforesaid has been
recovered or soring eg by the person concerned, there
Shall be deposited by the said person with the Public
Debt Commissioners for such period and on such
conditions as sa be approved by the Commissioner
an amount equal to the amount which has been 50
recovered or recouped less such amount, if any,
as has m the meantime been paid by the said person
in respect of the cost price of such last-mentioned ship,

(d) If owing to any occurrence (other than the loss by
the said person of such last-mentioned ship) or
because of any circumstance arising during any year
of assessment preceding the period of assessment in
respect of which any amount would in terms of the
preceding provisions of this sub-section or the corres-
ponding provisions of any previous Income Tax Act
be required to be included in the income of the taxpayer,
the Commissioner is no longer satisfied in regard to the
matters in pe gr to which in terms of the preceding
provisions of this sub-section he is required to be
satisfied, the said amount shall be included in the
Income of the taxpayer for the year of assessment
during which such occurrence takes place or such
circumstance arises. )

(e) If any amount which was deducted under paragraph
(ec) of section eleven or sub-section (1) of section
fwelve or the said sub-section as applied by sub-section
(3) of that section or the corresponding provisions of
any previous Income Tax Act in respect of machinery
or plant which was used by the taxpayer directly in a
process of manufacture, or directly in any other process
carried on by him on or after the fifteenth day of
March, 1961, which in the opinion of the Commissioner
was of a similar nature, has as a result of damage or
destruction by water or fire (heremafter referred to as

. GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY, 1962 247
“the event’) been recovered or recouped during any
year of assessment, and if the taxpayer satisfies the
Commuissioner—
(i) that he has concluded or will within a period
of one year (or such longer period as the Com-
missioner in the circumstances of the case may
allow) from the date of the event conclude a
contract for the acquisition by him of further new
or unused machinery or plant (hereinafter referred
to as the “further machinery or plant’’) to replace
the aforesaid machinery or plant; and
(ii) that the further machinery or plant has been or
will be brought into use within a period of three
years from the date of the event and will be used
by him directly in a process of manufacture
or any other process which in the opinion of the
Commissioner 1s of a similar nature, for a period
of not less than five years or until the further
machinery or plant is scrapped or disposed of in
the ordmary course of the taxpayer's trade prior
to the expiry of such period of five years,
the said amount shall, notwithstanding the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this sub-section, not be included
in the income of the taxpayer for the aforesaid year
of assessment: Provided that if, owing to any occur- |
rence or because of any circumstance arising during
any year of assessment the Commissioner is no longer
satisfied = penne to the matters in eee to cana
in terms of the preceding provisions of this paragr:
he 1s required to be satisfied, the said amauit chatt
included in the income of the taxpayer for the year
of assessment during which such occurrence takes ,
place or such circumstance arises. |
Cf) If as a result of the loss, sale or disposal in any other
manner by the taxpayer of the further machinery or |
plant referred to in paragraph (e) there has accrued
to or has been received by the taxpayer an amount in | :
excess of the cost thereof less the amount referred
to in the said paragraph, so much of the excess as does
not exceed such last-mentioned amount shall A gee
such last-mentioned amount has been included in
Income in terms of the proviso to the said paragraph)
be deemed to have been recovered or recouped and
shall be included in the taxpayer's income for the
year of assessment during which such further
machinery or plant was so lost, sold or er of in
addition to any recovery or recoupment referred to in
paragraph (a). ‘
(5) (a) Any amount which has been paid, whether in the ,
form of rent or otherwise, by any person for the right ,
of use or occupation of any movable or immovable
property and has been allowed as a deduction in the
determination of such person's taxable income, and
which or the equivalent of which is upon the subse-
quent acquisition of such property by that or any
other person applied in reduction or towards settle-
ment of the purchase price of such property, shall be
included in the income of the person by whom the
property 1s acquired as aforesaid for the year of
assessment in which such person exercises the option
or concludes the agreement, as the case may be, in
consequence of which the property is acquired by him,
(5) Where any amount has been paid by any person for
the right of use or occupation of any property which
is thereafter acquired by that or any other person for
a consideration which in the opinion of the Com-
missioner is not an adequate consideration, it shall
for the purposes of paragraph (a) be deemed, unless
the Commissioner having regard to the circumstances
of the case otherwise decides, that the said amount,
or so much thereof as does not exceed the difference
between the fair market value of such property as deter- ’
mined by the Commissioner and the amount of the
consideration for which it has been acquired as afore-
said, has been applied in reduction or towards settle-
ment of the purchase price of such property.

(c) Any decision of the Commissioner under paragraph (6)

: shall be subject to objection and appeal.

9, An amount shall be deemed to have accrued to rail preee Circumstances
from a source within the Republic if it has been received by or in which amounts
has acerued to or in favour of such person by virtue of— Pi

(a) any contract made by him within the Republic for the sources within
sale of goods, whether such goods have been delivered the Republic.

or are to be delivered in or out of the Republic;

(5) the use in the Republic of or the grant of permission
to use in the Republic, or the or fea of or the
undertaking to impart any knowledge directly or in-
directly connected with the use in the Republic of any
patent as defined in the Patents Act, 1952 (Act No. 37
of 1952), or any design, trade mark or copyright as
defined in the Designs, Trade Marks and Copyright
Act, 1916 (Act No. 9 of 1916), or any other property
which in the opinion of the Commissioner is of a
similar nature, wheresoever such property has been
produced or such permission has been granted or such
knowledge has been imparted or such undertaking has
been given or payment for such use, Bs of per-
mission, imparting of knowledge or undertaking has
been made or is to be made, and whether such pay-
ment has been made or is to be made by a person
resident in or out of the Republic;

(c) any business carried on by any such person who is ordi-
narily resident inthe Republicorinthecase ofa company
is registered, managed or controlled in the Republic,
as owner or charterer of any ship or aircraft, or the
disposal by such person of any commodity acquired
in connection with the operation of such ship or air-
craft, wheresoever such ship or aircraft may be
operated or such disposal of the commodity may be
effected;

(dq) any service rendered or work or labour done by such
person in the carrying on in the Republic of any trade,
whether the payment for such service or work or
labour is or 15 to be made by a person resident in or
out of the Republic and wheresoever payment for
such service or work or labour 1s or is to be made;

(¢) any services rendered by such person to or work or
labour done by such person for or on behalf of the
Government, including the Railway Administration
and any provincial administration, or any local
authority in the Republic or the South African Tourist
Corporation, notwithstanding that such services are
rendered or that such work or labour is done outside
the Republic, provided such services are rendered or
such work or labour is done in accordance with a
contract of employment entered into with the Govern-
a or such ancy ee Fon spice or a

poration: Provided that nothing in this paragraph
shall be construed as imposing liabi lity for taxation
under this Act upon any salary or emolument paid to
any person in the employment the Government,
including the Railway Administration, in respect of
any period for which such person is stationed in the
territory of South West Africa:

Cf) any services rendered or work or labour done by any
such person who is ordinarily resident in the Republic,
as an officer or a member of the crew of any ship
or aircraft referred to in paragraph (c), notwith-
standing that such services are rendered or such
work or labour is done outside the Republic and
wheresoever payment for such services or work or |
labour is or 1s to be made; ,

(z) wi Sse or annuity granted to such person,
wheresoever payment of that pension or annuity
is made and wheresoever the funds from which
payment is made are situate—

Gi) by the Government, including the Railway ,
Administration and any provincial administra-
tion, or by any local authority in the Republic;
or

(u) by any person, whether residing or carrying on
business in the Republic or not, if the services
im respect of which that pension or annuity was
granted were performed within the Republic
for at least two years during the ten years im-
mediately preceding the date from which the
pension or annuity first became due: Provided :

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY, I962 mI
that if the pension or annuity was granted in
respect of which were rendered partly
within and partly outside the Republic, only so
much of such — or annuity as bears to
the amount of such pension or annuity the
same ratio as the period during which the services
were rendered in the Republic bears to the total
period during which the services were rendered,
shall be deemed to be derived from a source
within the Republic.

10, (1) There shall be exempt from the tax— Exemptions.

(a) the revenues of the Government, including the Railway
Administration, and any provincial admunistration or
any other state;

(5) the revenues of local authorities;

(¢) the salaries and emoluments payable to—

(i) the State President: and

(1) any person who holds office in the Republic as
an official of any government, other than the
Government of the Republic or the Administra-
tion of the territory of South-West Africa,
provided such person is stationed in the Republic
for that purpose and is not ordinarily resident
in the Republic;

(d@) the receipts and accruals (including receipts or accruals
from investments) of any terminating building society,

pee fund, | ic pb fund, retirement annuity
fund or benefit fund or of any institution which in the
opinion of the Commissioner is a mutual savings
bank, a mutual loan association, a fidelity or indemnity
fund, a trade union or a non-proprietary stock ex-

(e) the receipts and accruals of— |

(i) any company, society or other association of
oe whether or not registered under any
aw [other than a company referred to in para-
graph (o) of a co-operative society or company
registered under the Co-operative Societies Act,
1939 (Act No. 29 of 1939)], the profits or gains
of which, other than profits or gains from invest-
ments, are derived solely from transactions with
or on behalf of its individual members, and
the constitution of which does not admit of the
distribution of its profits or gains to any persons
other than the members with whom or on whose
behalf the transactions took place, and does not
confer upon any person any benefit other than
benefits accruing to that person from trans-
actions with or on behalf of that person; and

(11) associations which in the opinion of the Com-
missioner are amateur sporting associations,

investments by any es company, society or associa-
tion;

(f) the receipts and accruals of all ecclesiastical, charitable
and educational institutions of a public character,
whether or not supported wholly or partly by grants
from the public revenue:

(7) any amount received as a war pension, or a5 an award
a benefit under any law relating to the payment
of compensation in respect of diseases contracted
by persons employed in mining operations;

(hk) interest received by or accrued to any person not
ordinarily resident nor carrying on business in the
oe opp from stock or securities (including Treasury
Bills) issued by the Government or any Ay ey
inthe Republic, or any local authority within the Repub-
lic or the Electricity Supply Commission: Provided that
if in the case of any such stock or securities issued in
respect of a loan raised in a country outside the
Republic the Treasury has, with the approval of the
Minister of Finance, given an undertaking that the
interest therefrom received by or accruing to any
person not ordinarily resident in the Republic shall
be exempt from taxes in the Republic, the interest

received by or accrued to such a person from such
of the said stock or securities as were acquired by him
outside the Republic and paid for by him in the cur-
rency of any country other than the Republic shall be
exempt from this tax even if that person carries
on business in the Republic;

(i) interest received from any deposit in the Post Office
Savings Bank, including interest on Post Office
savings Bank Certificates or on Tax Redemption
Certificates, or annual interest accrued in respect of any
Union Loan Certificates or National Savings Certi-
ficates, or interest received in respect of any loan
portion of the normal and super tax imposed under
the Income Tax Act, 1953, or any subsequent Act of
Parliament, or annual interest accrued in respect of
Five per cent Five Year Treasury Bonds, Five
cent Seven Year Treasury Bonds and any amount
credited as interest in respect of any subscription
share, but not in respect of any amount paid or
credited on any paid-up share in any building society:
Provided that the exemption in respect of interest—

(i) on deposits in the Post Office Savings Bank and on
Post Office Savings Bank Certificates made or held
by any one person shall be limited in each case to
the sum of one hundred rand:

(0) on Tax Redemption Certificates held by any one
person shall be limited to the sum of fifty rand;

(iii) on Five per cent Five Year Treasury Bonds shall
be limited to the sum of one thousand rand in the
case of any taxpayer; and

(iv) on Five per cent Seven Year Treasury Bonds shall
be limited to the sum of one thousand rand in the
case of any taxpayer;

(j) the receipts and accruals of any bank, if the Com-
missioner is satisfied that such bank is not resident in
the Republic and ts entrusted by the Government of a
oo suet — the Republic with ze a of the

cipal foreign exchange reserves of that territo
med the Minister of Finance decides to apply the
provisions of this paragraph to that bank in respect
of the year of assessment under charge;

(A) (i) dividends received by or accrued to or in favour
of any company; Provided that this exemption
shall not apply to dividends (other than those ,
distributed out of profits of a capital nature)
distributed by a fixed property company as defined
in section one of the Unit Trusts Control Act,
1947 (Act No. 18 of 1947), on shares held by a
company which is registered under the said Act
as a Management company in property shares;

(ii) dividends received by or accrued to or in favour of
any ign (other than a company) not ordinarily
resident nor carrying on business in the Republic;
(ii) dividends received by or accrued to or in favour
of the deceased estate of any on who at
date of death was not ordinari ly resident nor
carrying on business in the Republic, if, but for
this exemption, such deceased estate would have |
liable for normal tax in respect of such
(iv) so much of any dividend by or accrued
to any person (other than a se ge who is |
ordinarily resident in the Republic from any
company not registered in the Republic as the |
Commissioner is satisfied has been distributed
out of any profits of such company in respect of
which any amount has been included in any
year of assessment in the taxable income or |
income subject to super tax of such person as the
result of the apportionment under the income tax
law of the territory of South West Africa of the
taxable income or income subject to super tax of
such company among its shareholders;

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY, 1962 55
(v) dividends received by or accrued to any person
(other oe a company) ordinarily resident in
the Republic from any company not registered
in the Republic in respect of shares acquired by
(aa) before he became ordinarily resident in the
Republic for the first time;
(bb) by inheritance or by a donation if at the
date of the donation the donor was a Beare
(other than a company) not ordinarily
resident in the Republic;
(cc) out of funds derived by him from any trade
 garried on by him outside the Republic;
(dd) as bonus shares awarded to him as the
holder of shares the dividends on which are
: exempt from normal tax in his hands in
terms of this sub-paragraph or would have
been so exempt if such dividends had been
received by or had accrued to him on of
after the date of commencement of this sub-
paragraph;
(ee) out of funds derived by lum from the
disposal of shares the dividends on which
were exempt from normal tax in his hands |
in terms of this sub-paragraph or would
been received by or had accrued to him
on or after the date of commencement or
this sub-paragraph;
(vi) dividends received by or accrued to any person |
(other than a company) ordinarily resident in
the Republic during any year of assessment from
any company incorporated in the territory of |
South West Africa, if the Commissioner 15 |
satisied that so much of the total net profits
of such company for such year of assessment
as does not consist of dividends was derived |
wholly or mainly from a source within the said
territory, and that any dividends included in the
total net profits of such company for such year
of assessment were derived from a company
or companies the total net profits of which for
such year of assessment consisted solely or
mainly of taxable income, determined under the
Income tax laws of, and derived from sources
within, the rer goers ate ag that for the
purposes of this sub-paragraph the expression
“total net profits’ in dation th any inert
in respect of any year of assessment means the
net profits of that company for such year of
assessment calculated in the manner prescribed |
under the income tax laws of the said territory
for the determination of taxable income for normal |
tax purposes in respect of that year of assessment,
but irrespective of whether the profits are derived
from a source within or outside the said territory
and subject to the inclusion in the profits of such
company of all dividends from whatever source;
(I) the profits of mining made under a lease granted under
section forty-six of the Precious and Base Metals
Act, 1908 (Act No. 35 of 1908), of the Transvaal:
(m) any amount received by or accrued to an author of a
work in respect of the assignment of or grant of an
interest in a copyright in such work, if such amount
1s chargeable with income tax in a country other than
the Republic: Provided that this exemption shall not
apply to any person who is not the first owner of a
copyright in terms of Chapter [IV of the Designs,
Trade Marks and Copyright Act, 1916 (Act No, 9
of 1916), or to a company; ;
(n) any amount received by or accrued to any member of
the defence forces of the Republic, in time of war or

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 297TH MAY, 1962 57
during a period of three months thereafter, whether
in cash or otherwise, as an allowance for any uniform,
ration or lodging;

(o) the receipts and accruals of any company registered
in pursuance of a licence granted under section
renty-one of the Companies Act, 1926 (Act No. 46
of 1926), which has not been revoked;

(p) any amount received by or accrued to any person who |
is not ordinarily resident in the Republic, for services
rendered or work or labour done by him outside the
Republic for or on behalf of the Government, including
the Railway Administration and any provincial
administration, or any local authority in the —
or the South African Tourist Corporation, if such
amount is chargeable with income tax in the country
in which he 1s ordinarily resident and the income tax
so chargeable is borne by himself and is not paid on
his behalf by the Government, the provincial adminis-
tration or local authority concerned or the said
Corporation;

(g) so much of any gratuity received by or accrued to any
person from his employer as the Commissioner deems
to be a grant made because such person had obtained
a university degree or diploma or had been successful
In some ¢Xamination, and not remuneration or any
portion of remuneration for services rendered or to be
rendered;

(rF) any gratuity (other than a leave gratuity) received by or
accrued to any person from public funds upon his
retirement from any office or employment under the
Government, including the Railway Administration
and any provincial administration, which the Treasury
declares to be free of tax:

(s) the secel pts and accruals derived by any company from
the realization of assets consisting of gold bullion or
shares in companies, if such assets were acquired by
such company with funds which were transferred
to the Republic from any country outside the Republic
by arrangement with the Treasury or with funds derived
from the realization of similar assets acquired with
the proceeds derived from any such assets or from
dividends received in respect of such shares, and the
Treasury has with the approval of the Minister
of Finance given an undertaking that any such receipts
and asia shall be exempt from the tax, provided
particulars of the terms and conditions of any arrange-
ment with and any undertaking given by the Treasury
and the period during which such iiidestakine is to
endure are published in the Gazesfe:

(f) the receipts and accruals of the Council for Scientific
and Industrial Research.

(2) Notwithstanding the exemptions provided for in para-
graphs (fi) and (&) of sub-section (1}—

(a) all amounts falling within the scope of the said para-
graphs shall be set out by the taxpayer in the return
rendered by him; and

(6) the said exemptions shall not apply in respect of any
portion of an annuity.

(3) The exemptions provided by any paragraph of sub-section
(1) shall not extend to any payments out of the revenues,
receipts, accruals or profits mentioned in such paragraph.

(4) There shall be exempt from the tax— :

(a) every married person whose taxable income in any
year of assessment does not exceed six hundred rand or,
where the period of assessment is less than a full year,
an amount which bears to six hundred rand the same
ratio as the period assessed bears to ome year; and

| (5) every other person, except a company, whose taxable
income in any year of assessment does not |
five hundred rand or, where the period of assessment
is less than a full year, an amount which bears to five
hundred rand the same ratio as the period
bears to one year.

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 297 MAY, I962 5
ll. For the purpose of determining the taxable income General
derived by any person from carrying on any trade within the croutons
Republic, there shall be allowed as deductions from the income getermination

of such person so derived— of taxable

(a) expenditure and losses actually incurred in the Republic “
in the production of the income, provided suct
expenditure and losses are not of a capital nature;

— (6) so much as the Commissioner may allow of any
expenditure and losses actually incurred outside the

| Republic in the production of, the income, provided
such expenditure and losses are not of a capital
nature;

(c) any expenditure, other than that of a capital nature,
actually incurred by the taxpayer during the year of
assessment in respect of any dispute or action at law
arising in the course or by reason of the ordinary
operations undertaken by him in the carrying on of

(@q) expenditure actually. incurred during the year of
assessment on repairs of property occupied for the
purpose of trade or im respect of which income 15
receivable, including any expenditure so incurred
on the treatment against attack by beetles of any
timber forming part of such property and sums
expended for the repair of machinery, implements,
utensils and other articles employed by the taxpayer

for the purposes of his trade;
 (e) save as provided in sub-paragraph (2) of paragraph 12
of the First Schedule, such sum as the Commissioner
may think just and reasonable as representing the
amount by which the value of any machinery (less
any deduction under sub-section (1) of section frelve
or under that sub-section as applied by sub-section

(3) of the said section, or under the corresponding

provisions of any f pratien Income Tax Act), imple-
ments, utensils and articles used by the taxpayer for
the purpose of his trade has been diminished by
reason of wear and tear during the year of assessment:

Provided that—

(i) where a deduction has been allowed under
paragraph (d), the Commussioner shall take

: into consideration the sum allowed under that
paragraph in determining the sum to be allowed
under this paragraph;

(ii) in no case shall any allowance be made for the
depreciation of buildings or other structures or
works of a permanent nature;

(ii) no allowance shall be made under this paragraph
in respect of any ship to which the provisions of

a paragraph (a) of section fourteen apply: :

(iv) the value of new or unused machinery, implements,
utensils or articles which were used by the
taxpayer directly in a process of manufacture or,
if brought into use on or after the fifteenth day
of March, 1961, in any other process which in
the opinion of the Commissioner is of a similar
nature, and were acquired to replace machinery,
implements, utensils or articles which were
damaged or destroyed by water or fire, shall be

| reduced by any amount which has been recovered

, or recouped as contemplated in paragraph (a)
of sub-section (4) of section efgAr or the corres-
ponding provisions of any previous Income Tax
Act in respect of the damaged or destroyed
machinery, implements, utensils or articles and
has been excluded from the taxpayer's income |
in terms of paragraph (e) of the said sub-section
or the corresponding | gpeheg ee of any previous
Income Tax Act, and not included in the tax-
payer's income in terms of the proviso to the said
paragraph or the corresponding provisions of any
previous Income Tax Act in the current or any
previous year of assessment;

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY, 1962 61

(v) the value of any machinery, implements, utensils
or articles used by the taxpayer for the purposes
of his trade shall be increased by the amount of
any expenditure (other than expenditure referred
to in paragraph (a)) which ts proved to the
satisfaction of the Commissioner to have been |
incurred by the taxpayer in moving such ma-
chinery, implements, utensils or articles from one
location to another;

(/) an allowance in respect of any premium or con-
sideration in the nature of a premium paid by a
taxpayer for—

(i) the right of use or occupation of land or buildings
used or occupied for the production of income
or from which income is derived; or

(ii) the right of use of any plant or machinery used
for the production of income or from which
income is derived; or

(iii) the right of use of any patent as defined in the
Patents Act, 1952 (Act No. 37 of 1952), or any
design, trade mark or copyright as defined in
the Designs, Trade Marks and Copyright Act,
1916 (Act No. 9 of 1916), or of any other property
which in the opinion of the Commissioner is of
a similar nature, if such patent, design, trade
mark, copyright or other property is used for
the production of income or income is derived
therefrom; or

(iv) the imparting of or the undertaking to impart any
knowledge directly or indirectly connected with
the use of such patent, design, trade mark,
copyright or other property as aforesaid:

Provided that—

(aa) the allowance under sub-paragraph (i), (ii) or
(iii) shall not exceed for any one year such portion
of the amount of the premium or consideration
so paid as is po to the said amount divided by
the number of years for which the taxpayer is
entitled to the use or occupation, or one twenty-
fifth of the said amount, whichever is the greater;

(bb) if the taxpayer is entitled to such use or occupation
for an indefinite period he shall be deemed, for
the purposes of this paragraph, to be entitled
to such use or occupation for such period as in
the opinion of the Commissioner represents the
probable duration of such use or occupation; and

(cc) the allowance under sub-paragraph (iv) shall not
exceed for any one year such portion (not being
less than one twenty-fifth) of the amount of the
premium or consideration so paid as the Com-
missioner may allow having regard to the period
during which the taxpayer will enjoy the right to
use such patent, design, trade mark, copyright
or other property as aforesaid and any other
circumstances which in the opinion of the Com-
missioner are relevant;

(g) an allowance in respect of any expenditure actually
incurred by the taxpayer, in pursuance of an obligation
to effect improvements on land or to buildings,
incurred under an agreement whereby the right of
use or occupation of the land or buildings is granted
by any other person, where the land or buildings are
used or occupied for the production of income or
income is derived therefrom: Provided that—

(i) the aggregate of the allowances under this

| paragraph shall not exceed the amount stipulated
in the agreement as the value of the improvements
or as the amount to be expended on the improve-
ments or, if no amount is so stipulated, an amount
representing in the opinion of the Commissioner
the fair and reasonable value of the improvements;

— GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINA Y, 297TH MAY, 1962 63

(ii) any such allowance shall not exceed for any one
year such portion of the aggregate of the
allowances under this paragraph as is equal
the said aggregate divided by the number of
years (calculated from the date on which the
Improvements are completed) for which the
taxpayer is entitled to the use or occupation,
one twenty-fifth of the said aggregate, whichever
is the greater: and

(iii) if the taxpayer is entitled to such use or occupa-
tion for an indefinite period, he shall for the
purposes of this paragraph be deemed to be
entitled to such use or occupation for such
period as in the opinion of the Commissioner
represents the probable duration of such use or

(A) se stale in respect of et amounts > in
the taxpayer's gross income under paragraph (g) or
paragraph (f) of the definition of “gross income”
In section one as the Commussioner may deem reason-
able having regard to any special circumstances of
at case aga Fg the a oye — 50 —
under the said paragr 1), to the original period
for which the right aso or occupation a acanted:

' (i) the amount of any debts due to the taxpayer to the
extent to which they are proved to the satisfaction
of the Commissioner to be bad, provided such amount
is Included in the current year of assessment or was
included in previous years of assessment in the
taxpayer's Income;

(j) such an allowance as may be each year by the
Commissioner in respect of such debts due to the
taxpayer as he considers to be doubtful: Provided
that such allowance shall be included in the income
of the taxpayer in the following year of assessment,
and for that purpose any allowance granted in terms
of paragraph (A) of sub-section (2) of section eleven
of the Income Tax Act, 1941, in respect of the year
of assessment ended on the thirtieth day of June,
1961, shall be deemed to be an allowance which was
made in terms of this paragraph;

(kK) any sum contributed during the year of assessment
by way of current contribution to any pension fund
by any person holding any office or employment,
where the making of such a contribution is a condition
of the holding of such office or employment: Provided
that the deduction to be allowed in respect of contri-
butions to a pension fund not established by law shall
not exceed the sum of four hundred rand ;

(1) any sum contributed by the taxpayer during the year
of assessment for the benefit of his employees to any
pension fund, provident fund or benefit fund: Pro-
(i) in respect of any lump sum contribution, the

Commissioner may determine that the said sum ,
shall be deducted in a series of annual instal-

ments, so that only a portion thereof is deducted

in the year of assessment in which it is contri- :

buted, and the residue in such subsequent years

of assessment and in such proportions as the

Commissioner may determine, until the contribu-

tion is extinguished;

(ii) if the contributions ‘agen: any lump sum ,
payments) made by the taxpayer in respect of
any employee during any year of assessment
to such funds exceed an amount equal to ten
per cent of the approved remuneration of such
employee for such year of assessment, and the
Commissioner is satisfied that the aggregate of
such contributions and the total remuneration
accrued during such year of assessment to such |
employee in respect of his employment by the
taxpayer is excessive or unjustifiable in rolutinn
to the value of the services rendered by such
employee to the taxpayer, and having regard to
other benefits, if any, derived by him from his
employment by the taxpayer, only so much

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 297H MAY, 1962 65
such contributions as appears to the Com-
missioner to be reasonable, but not less than an
amount equal to ten per cent of the approved
remuneration of such employee for such year of
assessment, shall be allowed to be deducted
under this paragraph;

(iii) any decision of the Commissioner under this
paragraph, not being a decision under paragraph
(i) of this proviso, shall be subject to objection
and appeal,
and for the purposes of paragraph (ii) of this proviso
“approved remuneration”, in relation to any em-
ployee for any year of assessment, means so much
of the total remuneration accrued to such employee
during such year of assessment in respect of his
employment by the taxpayer concerned as the Com-
missioner considers to be fair and reasonable in relation
to the value of the services rendered by such employee
during such year of assessment to the taxpayer and
having regard to other benefits, if any, derived by
him from his employment by the taxpayer;
(m) any amount paid by way of annuity during the year
of assessment by any taxpayer—

(i) to a former an who ord par ge Pigs .
taxpayer's employ on grounds of old age, ill
health or infirmity: or =

(ii) to any person who is dependent for his mainten-
ance upon a former employee (where such
former employee is deceased) was so dependent
immediately prior to his death:

Provided that the deduction under sub-paragraph (ii)
shall not exceed in respect of the ssdcucics as aeoasiionk
on any one retired or deceased employee, the sum of
six hundred rand;
(7) ony sum contributed by the taxpayer during the year
| assessment by way of current contribution to any
retirement annuity fund: Provided that the deduction
under this paragraph shall not exceed eight hundred
rand or, in the case of any person who is entitled to
a deduction under paragraph (4), the amount by
which the amount of the deduction under the said
paragraph is less than cight hundred rand:
(o) save as provided in sub-paragraph (2) of paragraph 12
of the First Schedule, an allowance in respect of any
building of the nature described in sub-section (1)
or (4) of section thirteen or any machinery, imple-
ments, utensils and articles by the taxpayer for
the purposes of his trade which have been scrapped
by such taxpayer during the year of assessment, such
allowance to be the excess of the original cost to
such taxpayer of such building, machinery, imple-
ments, wtensils or articles over the total amount
arrived at by adding all the allowances made in respect
thereof under paragraph (e) of this section, or sub-
section (1) of section twelve or that sub-section as
i by sub-section (3) of the satd section, or
sub-section (1) or (4) of section thirteen or paragraph
(a) or (6) of section fourteen or the corresponding
provisions of any previous Income Tax Act, to any
amount or the value of nom Spish ape o accruing to
the taxpayer in respect of the sale or other disposal
of such building, machinery, implements, utensils
and articles: Provided that—

(i) no allowance shall be made in the case of any
such building which has been scrapped within a
period of ten years from the date of erection
purchase;

ii) for the purposes of this paragraph the cost of

a any building shall be Seuned ‘nga the actual
cost less any amount deducted from such cost
in terms of sub-section (3) of section thirteen or
the corresponding provisions of any previous
Income Tax Act,

and for the purposes of this paragraph the cost of

any machinery, implements, utensils or articles shall ,

be to be the actual cost plus the amount by

which the value of such machinery, implements,

utensils or articles has been increased in terms of

paragraph (v) of the proviso to paragraph (e) or the

corresponding provisions of any oe Income Tax
? Act, and less the amount by which such value has

reduced in terms of paragraph (iv) of the said

proviso or the corresponding provisions of any

previous Income Tax Act:

(p) expenditure incurred during the year of assessment by
any taxpayer—

(i) for the purpose of scientific research undertaken |
by him for the development of his business, if
such expenditure is not of a capital nature; or

(ii) by way of contributions to any association,
institute, college or university, to be used in |
scientific research relating to the taxpayer's own |
business, if the Council for Scientific and Indus-
trial Research certifies to the Commissioner that
it approves the proposals of such association,
institute, college or university in regard to such
research and that it is satisfied that such con-
tributions will be used in such research;

(g) save as provided in sub-paragraph (2) of paragraph
12 of the Furst Schedule, if the Commissioner is
satisfied that expenditure of a capital nature has been
incurred by a taxpayer for the purpose of scientific
research undertaken by him for the development
of his business, and the Council for Scientific and
Industrial Research certifies to the Commissioner
that during the year of assessment in question such
research was carried on and was financed by such
expenditure, an amount im respect of the year of
assessment in which such research commenced and of
any succeeding year of assessment, calculated at the
rate of twenty-five per cent of such expenditure:
Provided that—

(1) the total deduction under this paragraph shall not
exceed the amount of such expenditure; and

(0) 1f In any year of assessment the taxpayer dis-
continues such research or if the Council for
ogre gear Research is pia in ,
respect of any year of assessment, to certify as :
srovsiel ‘a tke fercaohae provisions of “this
paragraph, there shall be included in the taxpayer's
income for that year of assessment the total of the
deductions under this paragraph or the corres-
ponding provisions of any previous Income Tax
Act, Whether in the current or any previous year of
ene less ioscan a aiid gboe sir
expenditure in respect of each cor d peric
oF ai H nent not exceeding ten, contained in the
period during which such research was carried on;

(rF) notwithstanding the Sa sags of section fwenty-three,
so much of any donation made on or before the
thirtieth day of June, 1962, by a company during the
year of assessment for the pe snes of technological
training, as defined in the Technological Training
Advancement Act, 1960 (Act No. 69 of 1960), at a
university (as so defined) as does not exceed one per
cent of the taxable income of company as
calculated before allowing any deduction under this
paragraph, provided an amount not less than the
amount of such deduction has been paid during the
year of assessment in question into the special account
established under the said Act;

s) in the case of a fixed property company as defined in

©) section one of the Unit Tyan Control Act, 1947
ae No. 18 of 1947), the dividends (other than those

istributed out of profits of a capital mature) dis-

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY, 1962 69
tributed by such company during the year of assessment
on shares held by a company which is registered under | |
the said Act as a management company in property
(f) in the case of any taxpayer (excluding any taxpayer who :
derives income from the sale of immovable property
to persons who are not employed by him) who during
any year of assessment within the period of two years
ending on the thirticth day of June, 1963, incurs expen-
diture in connection with the erection of any dwelling
or who, for the purpose of financing in whole or in
part the erection by any person during the said period |
of any dwelling, advances or donates to any person
any amount during any such year assessment,
and who satisfies the Commissioner that that dwelling
will be occupied exclusively by persons or the house-
holds of persons who are his employees and are
employed by him for the purposes of his trade (other
than mining or farming), an allowance in respect of
the said year of assessment equal to twenty-five per
cent of the expenditure $0 incurred or of the amount so |
advanced or donated: Provided that—
i) where any company is mainly engaged in the
sectision of housing facilities for pgatete ep
of its sole or principal shareholder, the employees
of such shareholder shall for the purposes of this | |
paragraph be deemed to the employees also |
of the said company;
(ii) the aggregate of all the allowances made under
this paragraph or the corresponding provisions
of any previous Income Tax Act in respect of
the erection of any one dwelling shall not exceed
the sum of one thousand rand;
(iii) if in any year of assessment any dwelling in
relation to the erection of which an allowance
has been made to any taxpayer under this para-
graph or the corresponding provisions of any
previous Income Tax rs whether in the ae
Of any previous year of assessment, is occupi
by any person or by the household of any person
who is not an employee of that taxpayer, there
shall be included in the income of the said tax-
payer for the current year of assessment the
amount of such allowance less an amount equal
to one-tenth of the said allowance in respect of
each completed period of one year, but not
exceeding ten years, during which such dwelling
Was occupied by an employee or the household
of an employee of that taxpayer,
and for the purposes of this paragraph “employee”
in relation to any taxpayer does not include any
person who is a relative of that taxpayer or who,
if the apart is a company, is a shareholder (or a
relative of a shareholder) in that company or in any
company which is associated with that company
by virtue of sharcholding, not being a shareholder
who holds all his shares in that company solely
because he is ye by that company and who will,
In terms of the articles of association of that company,
not be entitled to continue to hold those shares after
he ceases to be so employed;
(a) 80 much of the expenditure (includingclub subscriptions) |
but not exceeding three hundred rand, incurred by
the taxpayer during the year of assessment in respect
of entertainment as the Commissioner is satisfied was
so incurred directly in connection with his trade and |
which 1s not such expenditure as is referred to in |
paragraph (a); :
(¥) notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) and
(5) of section twenty-three, in respect of any person
suffering from any physical disability whose taxable
Income (as calculated before allowing any deduction
under this paragraph) for the year of assessment in
question does not exceed three thousand rand, so
much of any expenditure, but not exceeding three

hundred rand, incurred by such person during such
year of assessment as the Commissioner is satisfied
was necessarily incurred by him in consequence of
such disability and for the purpose of caane on his
trade, not being such expenditure as is referred to in
any of the other paragraphs of this section or in section
elehteen:

(wv) the amount of any premium for which the taxpayer
actually became liable under any policy of insurance
taken out upon the life of an employee or, in the case
of a company, upon the life of a director or an em-
ployee of that company, if such policy 1s the property
of the taxpayer;

(x) any amounts which in terms of any other provision in
this Part, are allowed to be deducted from the income
of the taxpayer.

12. (1) In respect of new or unused machinery or plant Deductions in
brought into use by any taxpayer for the purposes of his trade SE an
and used by him directly in a process of mumantictnie OF any plant used ina
other process which in the opinion of the Commissioner is of a process of
similar nature, there shall be allowed to be deducted from the ™anvfacture or
income of such taxpayer for the year of assessment during ©Y >°te!keepers.
which such machinery or plant is so brought into use an allow-
ance equal to fifteen per cent of the cost to him of such machinery
or plant: Provided that in the case of machinery or plant which
has been acquired to replace machinery or plant which was
damaged or destroyed by water or fire, the allowance shall
calculated on such cost less any amount which has been re-
covered or recouped in respect of the damaged or destroyed
machinery or plant and has been excluded from the taxpayer's
income in terms of paragraph (¢) of sub-section (4) of section
eight or the corresponding provisions of any previous Income
Tax Act, whether in the current or any previous year of

(2) There shall further be allowed to be deducted from the
income of any taxpayer, in respect of new or unused machinery
or plant py into use by him for the purposes of his trade
and used by him directly in a process of manufacture or any
other process which in the opinion of the Commissioner is
of a similar nature, an allowance, to be known as a machinery
investment allowance, for the year of assessment (not being
later than that ending on the thirtieth day of June, 1963) during
which such machinery or plant was so brought into use, ecraal
to twenty per cent of the cost to the taxpayer of such machinery
or plant: Provided that the Minister of Finance may, in the case
of any such machinery or plant brought into use in a Bantu area
OF an area adjacent to a Bantu area, with due regard to the
circumstances of the case and to the recommendations of the
Secretary for Bantu Administration and Development and the
secretary for and Industries, direct that the allowance
be increased to a sum not exceeding thirty per cent of such cost.

(3) The provisions of sub-sections (1) and (2) shall mutaris
mutandis apply—

(a) with reference to new or unused machi orl implements,
utensils and articles (other than vehicles and other
than rt btm for managers’ and servants’ rooms
and offices) brought into use by a taxpayer for the
purposes of his trade as hotelkeeper; and

(5) where the Minister of Finance, having regard to the
circumstances of the case and to the recommendations
ofthe Secretary for Bantu Administration and Develop-
ment and the Secretary for Commerce and Industries
so directs, with reference to—

(i) used machinery or plant brought into use and used
directly in a process of manufacture or any other
process which in the opinion of the Commissioner
1s of a similar nature, in a Bantu area or an area
adjacent to a Bantu area;

(ii) used machinery, implements, utensils and articles
gg than vehicles and other than equipment

Or managers’ and servants” rooms and offices)
brought into use for the purposes of his trade
by a hotelkeeper in such an area:

a GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 2971 MAY, 1962 73
Provided that the allowance provided for in sub-
section (1) shall not be permitted to be deducted in
respect of used once 1 implements, utensils
or articles in respect of which an allowance has already
been deducted for the year of assessment during which
such machinery, plant, implements, utensils or articles
were brought into use and used as new or unused
machinery, plant, implements, utensils or articles,
either under the said sub-section or under the corres-
ponding provisions of any previous Income Tax Act:
Provided further that, where an allowance has been
permitted to be deducted under sub-section (2) or the
corresponding provisions of any previous Income
Tax Act, in the case of new or unused machinery,
plant, implements, utensils or articles, the allowance
In respect thereof as used machinery, plant, implements,
utensils or articles shall be such a proportion, not
exceeding ten per cent, of the cost thereof as the
Minister of Finance may direct.

(4) The cost of used machinery, plant, implements, utensils
or articles shall, for the purpose of determining the allowance
to be deducted in respect thereof—

(a) under sub-section (1) as applied by sub-section (3),
be deemed to be the actual cost thereof less the
aggregate of the amounts allowed to be deducted in
respect thereof under paragraph (e) of section eleven
or the corresponding provisions of any previous
Tax Act, either in the current or any
previous year of assessment;

(6) under sub-section (2) as so applied, be deemed to be
the actual cost thereof less the aggregate of the amounts
allowed to be deducted in respect thereof under

aragraph (e) of section eleven or under sub-section
(1) or under that sub-section as so applied or under
the corresponding provisions of any previous Income
Tax Act, either in the current or in any previous year
of assessment.

13. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained Deducticns in
in paragraph (um) of the proviso to paragraph (¢) of section Pevticic 4 hes
eleven, an allowance equal to two per cent of the cost (after the 2“Droces of
deduction of any amount referred to in sub-section (3)) to the manufaccure or by
taxpayer of any building and of _ improvements (other than hotelkeepers.
repairs) effected thereto shall be allowed to be deducted from
his income—

(a) if the erection of such building was commenced by
him on or after the eeeaty Ge a of March, 1959,
but not later than the fourteenth day of March,
1961, and such building was wholly or mainly used
by him during the year of assessment for the
of carrying on therein any process of manufacture in
the course of his trade (other than mining or farming);
or

(6) if the erection of such building was commenced by
him on or after the fifteenth day of March, 1961, and
such building was wholly or mainly used by him during
the year of assessment for the purpose of carrying on
therein in the course of his trade (other than mining
or farming) any process of manufacture or any other
process which in the opinion of the Commissioner is
of a similar nature, or such building was let by him
and was wholly or mainly used for the purpose of
carrying on therein any process as aforesaid in the
course of any trade (other than mining or farming);
or |

(c) if the erection of such building was commenced on or
after the twenty-filth day of March, 1959, but not
later than the fourteenth day of March, 1961, and
such building has been acquired by purchase from
any other person who was entitled to an allowance
in respect thereof under paragraph (a) or the corres-
steep aoa of any previous Income Tax Act,
and such building was wholly or mainly used during the ,
year of assessment by the person by whom it has been
acquired for the purpose of carrying on therein ~~
process of cadnatuceaes in the course of his trade
(other than mining or farming); or

(d@) if the erection of such building was commenced on
or after the fifteenth day of March, 1961, and such
building has been acquired by purchase from any ;
other person who was entitled to an allowance in
respect thereof under paragraph (0) or the correspond-
ing provisions of any previous Income Tax Act,
such building was wholly or mainly used during the
year of assessment by the person by whom it has been
acquired for the purpose of carrying on therein in
the course of his trade (other than mining or farming)
a process of manufacture or any other process which
in the opinion of the Commussioner is of a similar
nature, or such building was let by him and was
wholly or mainly used for the purpose of carrying on
therein in the course of any trade (other than mining
or farming) any process as aforesaid.
yo aggregate of the maronigir pe under sat nation, 41)
or the corresponding provisions of any previous Income Tax
Act shall not exceed the cost (after the deduction of any amount
referred to in sub-section (3) or the corresponding provisions
of any previous Income Tax Act) of any building $0 erected or
purchased, as the case may be, together with the cost of any
subsequent improvements (other than repairs) effected thereto.
(3) If in any year of assessment there falls to be included in
a taxpayer's income in terms of paragraph (a) of sub-section (4)
of section efgff an amount which has been recovered or re-
couped in respect of any allowance made under sub-section (1)
or the corresponding provisions of any previous Income Tax
Act in respect of any building, the amount so recovered or
recouped shall, notwithstanding the provisions of the said
paragraph, at the oni of the taxpayer to be notified by him
In writing to the Commussioner when submitting his return
of income for the year of assessment during which the recovery
or recoupment occurred, and provided he purchases or erects
within twelve months or such further period as the Com-
missioner may allow from the date on which the event giving
rise to the recovery or recoupment occurred, any other building :
to which the provisions of this paragraph apply, not be included ed : oe
in his income for such year of assessment, but shall be set off Pe
against the cost to him of such further building purchased or _
erected by him,
(4) The provisions of sub-sections (1), (2) and (3) shall
mutatis mutandis apply with reference to any building the
erection of which was commenced by the taxpayer on or after
the second day of March, 1960, and the cost of subsequent :
improvements, (other than repairs) effected thereto if such
building was wholly or — used by him during the year of - |
assessment for the purpose of carrying on therein his trade of
hotelkeeper, and with reference to any building the erection
of which was commenced by a taxpayer on or after the fifteenth
day of March, 1961, and to the cost of subsequent improve-
ments (other than repairs) effected thereto, if such building was
let by the taxpayer and was wholly or mainly used for the
purpose of carrying on therein the trade of hotelkeeper.
(5) In addition to the deductions provided for in sub-sections
(1) to (4), inclusive, there shall be allowed to be deducted from
the income of any taxpayer an allowance to be known as a |
building investment allowance, in respect of the cost to the
(a) of any building owned by him the erection of which
was commenced on or after the second day of March,
" 1960, but not later than the fourteenth day of March,
1961, and of any Se (other than repairs)
commenced on or after the second day of March,
1960, but not later than the fourteenth day of March,
1961, to such building or to any building owned by
the taxpayer the erection of which was commenced
before the second day of March, 1960, if the building
in question was wholly or mainly used by him for the
purpose of carrying on therein any process of manu-
facture in the course of his trade (other than mining
or farming) or for the purpose of carrying on therein
his trade of hotelkeeper; |
(6) of any building owned by him the erection of which |
was commenced on or after the fifteenth day of March,
' 1961, but not later than the thirtieth day of June,
1962, and of any improvements (other than repairs)

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 297TH MAY, 1962 VP
commenced on or after the fifteenth day of March,
1961, but not later than the thirtieth day of June, 1962,
to any such building or to any building owned by the
taxpayer the erection of which was commenced before
the fifteenth day of March, 1961, if the building in
question was wholly or mainly by him for the
upon of carrying on therein in the course of his
t pest ares than mining or farming) any process of
manufacture or any other process which in the opinion
of the Commusstoner 1s of a similar nature or for the
purpose of carrying on therein his trade of hotel-
keeper, or if such building was let by him and was
wholly or mainly used for the purpose of carrying on
therein any process as aforesaid in the course of any
trade (other than mining or farming) or for the purpose
of carrying on therein the trade of hotelkeeper.
(6) The building investment allowance shall be a sum equal
to ten per cent of the cost of the buildings or improvements in
question for the year of assessment (but not later than that
ending on the thirtieth day of June, 1964) during which—
(a) in the case of the cost of erection of a building used by
the taxpayer or the lessee, the building was first so
used:
(6) in the case of the cost of any improvements to a building,
the improvements were completed:
Provided that the Minister of Finance may, having regard to
the circumstances of the case and to the recommendations of
the Secretary for Bantu Administration and Development
and the Secretary for Commerce and Industries, direct that the
allowance in respect of buildings referred to in paragraph (6)
of sub-section (5) which have been used in the manner aforesaid
in a Bantu area or an area adjacent to a Bantu area, or in
respect of improvements to such buildings, shall be increased
to a sum not exceeding twenty per cent of such cost.
14, There shall be allowed to be deducted from the income of Deductions
any person to in paragraph (c) of section nine— ee of
(a) in respect of any ship used by such person for the
purposes of his trade during the year of assessment ~
an allowance equal to ten per cent of the cost to him
of such ship; Provided that—
(i) where an allowance under paragraph (4) or the
corresponding provisions of any previous Income
Tax Act has been made to any person in respect
of any ship, no allowance shall be made under
this paragraph to such person in respect of that
“ for the year of assessment in which the ship
1s for the first time used by him for the purposes
of his trade; and
: (ii) the aggregate of all the allowances made to any
person in respect of any ship under this para-
graph, paragraph (4) of this section and para-
) graph (e) of section eleven or the corresponding
provisions of any previous Income Tax Act shall
not exceed the cost to such person of such ship;
(6) in the case of a person who during any year of assess-
ment concludes a contract for the acquisition by him
of a new ship (whether built or still to be built), or
of a ship which is not new and is proved to the satis- |
faction of the Secretary for Transport at all times | :
since its construction to have been maintained in
the highest class applicable to a ship of its type, and | |
who satisies the Commissioner that the ship in
question is or will be registered by him in the Republic
and is or will be by him for the purposes of his | |
trade as a foreign-going ship (as defined in section
two of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1951 (Act No. |
3? of 1951), prior to its mei te by the Merchant
Shipping Amendment Act, 1959, subject to the
reservation that the reference in paragraph (6) of
| the definition thereof to a ship of more than one
thousand pross register tons, shall be construed as a |
reference to a sup of not less than two hundred
pross register tons and that the reference in para- :

_ GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29Ta MAY, 1962 79
graph (d) to a shore-based whaling boat shall be
construed as a reference to a shore-based whaling
boat of less than two hundred gross register tons), ;
an allowance in respect of that year of assessment
equal to forty per cent of the cost to the said person
of that ship (hereinafter referred to as the cost price
of the ship), or, if at the time at which the allowance
under this paragraph has to be the cost price
of the ship has not yet been determined, of the esti-
mated cost price of that ship, provided the said
person satisfies the Commissioner that not less than
forty per cent of the cost price or of the estimated
cost price, as the case may be, of the ship will be
paid by him within a period of two years or, if the
Commissioner agrees, three years after the end of
that year of assessment or, if the said person does not
so satisfy the Commissioner, an allowance in respect
of any year of assessment equal to forty per cent of
the portion, if any, of the cost price of the ship paid
by him during that year of assessment: Provided that—

(i) the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply
in respect of any ship the registration of which
in the Republic in the name of the taxpayer
concerned does not or will not constitute its
first registration in the Republic;

(ii) if any taxpayer to whom an allowance equal to :
forty per cent of the cost price or estimated cost
price, as the case may be, of any ship has been
made under this paragraph or the corresponding
provisions of any previous Income Tax Act, fails
to pay at least forty per cent of such cost price or
estimated cost price, as the case may be, within
the said period of two or (as the case may be)
three years after the end of the year of assessment
in respect of which the said allowance has been
made, the said allowance shall be included in the
income of the said taxpayer for the year of assess-

| ment ending on the same day as the said period,
and there shall be deducted from the income of
the said taxpayer for that year of assessment an
allowance equal to forty per cent of the portion,
if any, of the cost price of such ship paid by him
during the said period, and from the income of
the said taxpayer for any year of assessment
thereafter an allowance equal to forty per cent of
the portion, if any, of the cost of such ship
paid by him during that year of assessment; and
(iii) if in respect of any year of assessment the Com-
missioner is no longer satisfied that a ship in
respect of which an allowance has been made
graph or the corresponding provisions of any
previous Income Tax Act (whether in the current
or any previous year of assessment) will be
registered in the Republic or will be used by the
taxpayer as aforesaid, or if in any year of assess-
ment any such ship which has been regis-
tered in the Republic or has been used by
tered or used, or if in any year of assessment
the taxpayer ceases to be a person referred to in |
paragraph (c) of section vine, so much of the
amount of the said allowance as is not in terms
of sub-section (4) of section eight required to
current or any other year of assessment, less
such amount as would, if this paragraph had
not been enacted, have been allowed to the tax-
payer by way of deductions (in addition to those
actually allowed) under paragraph (a) of this
seciion or paragraph (0) of section eleven or the |
corresponding provisions of any previous Income

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY, 1962 31
Tax Act, either in the current or any previous
car of assessment, shall in terms of this proviso
be inclutled in the income of the taxpayer for the
© current ape of rer Ro ee
ec) in respect any expenditure which such person
satisfies the Chinenieinnet he is likely to incur within
five years from the end of the year of assessment
In question on a eg to any ship used by him for
the purposes of his trade, such an allowance as,
notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (¢) of
section fwenty-fhree, the Commissioner, having regard
to the estimated cost of such repairs and the date on
which they are likely to be incurred, may make each
year: Provided that any such allowance in respect
of any year of assessment shall be included in the
income of the taxpayer for the following year of
assessment, and for that purpose any allowance made
in terms of paragraph tn) of sub-section (2) of section
eleven of the Income Tax Act, 1941, in respect of the
year of assessment ended on the thirtieth day of June,
1961, shall be deemed to have been made in terms of
this paragraph.
15. There shall be allowed to be deducted from the income Deductions from
derived by the taxpayer from mining operations— pe eres
(a) an amount to be ascertained under the provisions of operations.
section thirty-six, in leu of the allowances in para-
graphs , (f) and (o) of section eleven and sub-
section (1) of section twelve, including that sub-section
as applied by sub-section (3) of the last-mentioned
section;
(6) any gn pee ture incurred by the taxpayer aa oh rs
ar of assessment on prospecting rations (includ-
Ce. Surveys, borboks. eaicca, geen and other
exploratory work preliminary to the establishment
of a mine) in respect of any area within the Republic
in = — a Seung. Sie oe not been
rat by the State, together with any other expendi-
ae wid in the chet of the a Sm is
incidental to such operations: Provided that—
1) except in the case of any person who derives
” income from mining for ‘dinnnnds in the Re-
public, the sonccagorr e may mortyponnane sie
any expenditure referred to in this paragra:
shall be deducted in a series of nee natal
ments, $0 that only a portion of such expenditure
1s deducted in the year of assessment in which it
is incurred, and the residue in such subsequent
years of assessment and in such proportions as
the Commissioner may determine, until the
(ii) in the case of any company which derives income
from different classes of gf operations, the
deduction under this paragraph shall be made
from the income Senived from such class or classes
of mining operations in such proportions as
the Commissioner may determine: 3
(iii) any expenditure which has been allowed to be
deducted from the income of any person in
terms of this paragraph shall not be included in
such person’s capital expenditure as defined in
sub-section (11) of section thirty-six,
16. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) and Deduction of
@) of section twenty-three, there shall be allowed to be Bs Ber hg at da
rom the income of any dentist or medical practitioner so much piedical
as the Commissioner may allow of any expenditure incurred by practitioners on
such dentist or medical practitioner if the Dental Association of post-graduate
South Africa or the Medical Association of South Africa, as Study courses.
the case may be, certifies in such form as the Commissioner
may prescribe that he—
(a) has practised his profession for not less than three
years: and
(5) has meurred such expenditure during the year of
assessment in respect of the attendance by him of any
post-graduate study course approved by such Associ-
ation, to improve his qualifications for carrying on
his profession in the Republic.

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29m MAY, I962 83

17. There shall be ceo to be oa big ecace ae of Desneuon of
any taxpayer any expenditure actlally incurred by him during *P¢%%s incurred
the year of assessment in connection with the appointment of by ——
any agent for the sale outside thé Republic of goods manufac- agents pan 8 the
tured by the taxpayer in the cqurse of any trade (other than Republic,
mining or farming) carried on by him in the Republic,

18. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a), Deduction in
(5) and (¢) of section necnpeleer, there shall be allowed to be ag pe dee
deducted from the income of any taxpayer an allowance not sere ce
exceeding in the aggregate the sum of two hundred rand in practitioners,
me Se | soa nen nag

(a) any sum contributed by him during the year of assess- ial
ment by way of current contributions due by him,
as a member, to any fund recognized by the Com-
missioner as a benefit fund established for the sole
parla of defraying in whole or in part any nursing

ome, hospital, medical and dental expenditure which
may be incurred by its members; and

(5) any fees which the Commissioner is satisfied were
paid by the taxpayer during the year of assessment
to any nursing home in connection with any con-
finement of his wife, or to—

(i) any dentist or medical practitioner for dental
and medical services rendered to: or
(ii) any duly registered nursing home or hospital
” in eavet of the illness of, "
the taxpayer or his wife or his children or stepchildren
a to in paragraph (c) of sub-section (1) of
section six,

19, (1) The provisions of paragraphs (a) and (6) of section Deductions and
eleven ae section twenty shall, pore ge the whecE at of set-off from
sub-section (2) of this section, mutatis mutandis apply in riage em = is
relation to any income derived by any person in the form of = = = = —
dividends.

(2) In respect of expenditure and losses not of a capita
nature incurred by any person (other than a company) in thr
production of his income from dividends, the amount to tx
deducted under paragraphs (a) and (4) of section eleven, 2:
cae by sub-section (1) of this section, shall be an amoun:
which bears to the expenditure and losses which but for this
sub-section would have been allowed to be deducted, the same
ratio as the amount of such dividends as calculated after
allowing the deduction under sub-section (3), bears to
amount of such dividends as calculated before allowing such
deduction.

(3) In respect of income in the form of dividends derived
by any person other than a company there shall be allowed as
a deduction in the —o- of the ee raimong oh =
person an amount representing a percentage of such dividends
calculated in accordance with the fol ioe scale:

Where, but for the provisions of this Percentage

sub-section and sub-section (2) the o |

taxable income of the faxpayer for the fividends
year of assessment in question— fo be
would not exceed R2,600 100 per cent.
would exceed R2,600 but not R2,800 4 on
FF iF R2,800 iF t? R3,000 BS rr rt
bd b R3,000 bh bi R3,200 S2 ri bd
+? bb R3,200 Bb FF R3,400 Fis) rR BF
rr rr R3,400 7} 7F 3,600 70 re 7F
+h be R3,600 +e bb R3,800 64 rh bt
-r tr R3,800 LB i? R4,000 58 Ly af
of ‘a R4,000 in PT R4,200 oe PT rh
#r oF R4,600 334 77 +F

20. ®) For the purpose of determining the taxable income Set-off of
derived by any person from carrying on any trade within the @*¢s5ed losses.
Republic, there shall be set off against the income so derived
by such person—

(a) any balance of assessed loss incurred by the taxpayer
In any previous year which has been carried forward
from the preceding year of assessment; Provided that—

(i) no person whose estate has been voluntarily or
compulsorily sequestrated shall, unless the order
of sequestration has been set aside, be entitled
to carry forward any assessed loss incurred prior
to the date of sequestration;

(ii) the balance of assessed loss shall be reduced by
the amount or value of any benefit received by or
accruing to a person resulting from a concession
granted by or a compromise made with his
creditors whereby his liabilities to them have been
reduced or extinguished, provided such liabilities
arose in the ordinary course of trade:

(6) any assessed loss incurred by the taxpayer during the
same year of assessment in carrying on in the Republic
any other trade cither alone or in partnership with
others, otherwise than as a member of a company
the capital whereof is divided into

(2) For the purposes of this section “assessed loss" means
any amount, as established to the satisfaction of the Com-
missioner, by which the deductions admissible under sections
eleven to nineteen, inclusive, or the corresponding provisions of
any tigers Income Tax Act exceeded the income in respect
of which they are so admissible, or, if the context so requires,
means an assessed loss as determined under the provisions of
section thirty or the corresponding provisions of any previous
Income Tax Act.

21, The pean irn by im Li rears eo pac reduced by = one
cedars so : by him un ny judicial order or written 4moun APain |
agreement of separation or under/any order of divorce by way D) Way of alimony
of alimony or allowance or mpintenance of his spouse OF maintenance.
former spouse and any children

22. (1) The amount which shall, in the determination of Amounts to be
the taxable income derived by any person during any year of taken into account
assessment from carrying on any trade (other than farming), i" fesPect of
be taken into account in respect of the value of any arog stocks.
stock held and not disposed of by him at the end of such year o
assessment, shall be the cost price to such person of such trading
stock, less such amount as the Commissioner may think just
and reasonable as representing the amount by which the value
of such trading stock. not being shares held by any company
in any other company, has been diminished by reason of damage,
deterioration, change in fashion, decrease in the market value
or for any other reason satisfactory to the Commissioner.

Ft! Bn amount Nat i a in the go recneg esi of yor
‘laxable income derived by any person during any year ol
assessment from carrying on out "sada (other tha S fam ng),
be taken into account in respect of the value of any trading
stock held and not disposed of by him at the beginning of any
year of assessment, shall—

(a) if such trading stock formed part of the trading stock
of such person at the end of the immediately preceding
year of assessment be the amount which was, in the
determination of the taxable income of such person
for such preceding year of assessment, taken into
account in respect of the value of such trading stock
at the end of such preceding year of assessment; or

(5) if such trading stock did not form part of the trading
stock of such person at the end of the immediately
preceding year of assessment, be the cost price to
such person of such trading stock.

(3) For the purposes of this section the cost price at any
date of any trading stock in relation to any person shall be
the cost incurred by such person, whether in the current or any
previous year of assessment in acquiring such trading stock,
plus any further costs incurred by him up to and including the
said date in getting such trading stock into its then existing
condition or location. ;

(4) If any trading stock has been acquired by any person
for no consideration or for a consideration which is not measur-
able in terms of money, such person shall for the purposes of
sub-section (3) be deemed to have acquired such trading stock
at a cost equal to the price which in the opinion of the Com-

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY, 1962_ 87
SS
missioner was the current market price of such trading stock on
the date on which it was acquired by such person: Provided
that any bonus shares awarded by any company to shareholders
of that company on or after the first day of July, 1957, shall have
value.

(5) For the purpose of determining the cost oa of any
trading stock, any person may, if and as long as he maintains
records in ropes of his trading stock which the Commissioner
considers to be satisfactory, adopt the basis of trading stock
valuation whereunder the last item of any class of trading
stock purchased by any person on any date is deemed to be
the first item of that class of we stock sold by such person
on or after that date: Provided that any person electing to
adopt the aforesaid basis of trading stock valuation shall give
the Commissioner written notice thereof when he renders his
return of income for the first year of assessment in respect of
which the said basis is wiasied: teed any such election shall |
binding upon such person and may not be varied by him in
respect of any subsequent year of assessment, save with the
consent of the Commissioner and subject to such conditions
as the Commissioner may determine.

(6) Any reference in this section to the beginning or end of a
year of assessment includes—

(i) where the period assessed is less than twelve months,
a reference to the beginning or end, as the case may
be, of the period assessed; and
(ii) where a return ts accepted under the proviso to sub-
section (13) of section sixty-six to a date other than
the thirtieth day of June, a reference y Poneman: ones
or end, as the case may be, of the period covered by the
i, In this section any reference to a year of assessment
includes a reference to a year of assessment under the Income
Tax Act, 1941.
23. No deductions shall in any case be made in respect of Deductions not
the following matters, namely— ate a ar
(a) the cost incurred in the maintenance of any taxpayer, taxable income.
his family or establishment:
(5) domestic or private expenses, including the rent of or
cost of repairs of or expenses in connection with any
premises not occupied for the purposes of trade or of
any dwelling-house or domestic premises except in
respect of such part as may be occupied for the purposes
of trade:
(c) any loss or expense, the deduction of which would
otherwise be allowable, to the extent to which it is
recoverable under any contract of insurance, guarantee,
security or indemnity;
(7) the taxation levied on incomes;
(e) income carried to any reserve fund or capitalized in any
way:
(f) any =p incurred in respect of any amounts
received or accrued which do not constitute income as
defined in section one;
(g¢) any moneys claimed as a deduction from income
derived from trade, which are not wholly or exclusively
laid out or expended for the purposes of trade;
(hk) interest which might have been made on any capital
employed in trade;
(i) any amount claimed by a taxpayer on account of
his being a shareholder in a private company, in respect
of the taxable income of such company the deter-
mination of which results in an jae. loss,

24, If any taxpayer has entered into any agreement with any Hire-purchase or
other person in respect of any property, the effect of which is other agreements
that, in the case of movable property, the ounership shall pass Providing for
or, in the case of immovable property, transfer shall be passed et on:
from the taxpayer to that other person, upon or after the receipt property
the taxpayer of the whole or a certain portion of the amount concerned.
payable to the taxpayer under the agreement, the whole of that
amount shall for the purposes of this Act be deemed to have
accrued to the taxpayer on the day on which the agreement
was entered into: Provided that the Commissioner, taking into
consideration any allowance he has made under paragraph
Cj) of section eleven, may make such further allowance as under

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 297TH MAY, 1962 ed

————————ee ee eee eee — ee ——E—=_—_—_———————E—

the special circumstances of the trade of the taxpayer seems to

him reasonable, in respect of all amounts which are deemed

to have accrued under such agreements but which have not

been received at the close of the taxpayer's accounting period:

Provided further that any allowance so made shall be included

as income in the mig returns for the following Page of

assessment and shall form part of his income and for that

purpose any allowance pranted in terms of section twenty-two

of the Income Tax Act, 1941, in respect of the year of assessment

ended on the thirtieth day of June, 1961, shall be deemed to

be an allowance which was made in terms of this section.

Fi (1) Any ag a ne received - or accrued HA Fang in ag nae of a
of any person in his capacity as the executor of the estate of a bemeficiaries and»
deceaned person, and araone $0 received or accrued which cronies ciate
would have been income in the hands of the deceased person“ =
had it been received by or accrued or in favour of such
deceased person during his lifetime, shall, to the extent that the
Commissioner is satisfied that such income or amount has been
derived for the immediate or future benefit of any ascertained
heir or legatee of such deceased person, be deemed to be income
ceccived be or accrued to such apt legatee, and shall, to the
extent that the Commissioner is not so satisfied, be deemed to
be income of the estate of such deceased person.

(2) 50 much of the amount of any expenditure incurred by
or on behalf of the estate of any deceased person during any
year of assessment as in the opinion of the Commissioner
relates to any amount of income deemed to be income received
by or accrued to an heir or legatee of such deceased person in
terms of sub-section (1) shall—

(a) not be taken into account in the determination of the
taxable income of such estate: and

(6) be deemed to be expenditure incurred by such heir or
legatee during such year, and shall, to the extent that
the deduction of expenditure of the nature of the
opeene in question is authorized by this Act, be
taken into account in the determination of the taxable
income of such heir or legatee.

(3) Nothing in sub-section (1) shall be construed as imposing
liability for tax in respect of the same amount both m the
hands of the estate or heir or legatee of a deceased person and
in the hands of such deceased person.

(4) The decision of the Commissioner in the exercise of his
discretion under sub-section (1) or (2) shall be subject to
objection and appeal.

26. The taxable income of any person carrying on pastoral, Determination |
agricultural or other farming operations shall, in so far as it is ——— ved
derived from such opens tions, be determined in accordance from farming.
with the provisions of this Act but subject to the provisions of
the First Schedule,

27. (1) In the determination of the taxable income of any Determination of
co-operative trading society, as defined in the Co-operative ‘*able income of
Societies Act, 1939 (Act No. 29 of 1939), derived by that society S>-oPeTalive
from its transactions, whether with persons who are members companies.
or with persons who arc not members of the society, the amount
of any bonus distributed in any year of assessment to 1ts members
any such society which is a society as defined in
section ninety-seven of that Act shall be allowed as a deduction
from the income of that society in so far as such bonus dots not
exceed an amount equivalent to one-tenth of the aggregate value |
of the business of such society with its members during such
year of assessment, but no such deduction shall be allowed in
the case of any such co-operative trading society which is
not such a closed society,

(2) The receipts and accruals of any co-operative agricultural
soci or company or farmers’ special co-operative company |
as defined in the said Act, other than receipts or accruals derived
from transactions with persons who are not members of such :
society or company, shall be exempt from tax.

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY, 19629

(3) The provisions of sub-section (5) of section minety-seven
of the said Act shall mutatis mtutandis apply for the purpose of
determining the extent to which the receipts and accruals of
any such co-operative agricultural society or company or
farmers’ special co-operative company have been derived from
transactions with persons who are not members of such society
or company.

28. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained this Act Determination
the taxable income derived from the carrying on of long-term ae ee
insurance business by any taxpayer who carries on any Such insurance business
business in the Republic (whether on mutual principles or
otherwise) shall be deemed to an amount equivalent to
thirty per cent of the gross income so derived, excluding—

(a) income proved to the satisfaction of the Commissioner
to have been derived by the taxpayer from the invest-
ment of funds attributable to any long-term Insurance
business carried on by him in the Republic with any
pension fund or retirement annuity fund;
(5) income proved to the satisfaction of the Commissioner
to have been derived by the taxpayer from the invest-
ment of funds attributable to individual annuity
contracts entered into by him in respect of which
annuities are being paid and which are not connected
with any business carried on by him in the Republic
with any fund referred to in paragraph (a); and
(¢) one-third of any dividends received by or accrued to
him and which are not included in his income referred
lo in paragraphs (a) and (4),
which the Commissioner is satisfied has been derived by such | |
taxpayer from the investment (including the letting of any oF
property) of so much of his funds as are invested within or :
outside the Republic in respect of any long-term Insurance
business carried on by him in the Republic and of so much of
his funds as are invested within the Republic in respect of any
long-term insurance business carried on by him outside the
Republic.

(2) Subject to the provisions of this Act the taxable income ,
derived by any taxpayer the carrying on in the Republic |
of short-term insurance business (whether on mutual principles :
or otherwise) shall be determined by charging against the sum
of all premiums (including premiums on reinsurance) received
by or accrued to such taxpayer in oo si of the insurance of :
any risk, and other amounts derived from the carrying on of
such business of insurance in the Republic, the sum of—

(a) the total amount of the liability incurred in respect
of premiums on reinsurance;

(6) the actual amount of the liability incurred in respect |
of any claims during the year of assessment in respect
of that business of insurance, less the value of any
claims recovered or recoverable under any contract
of insurance, guarantee, security or indemnity;

(c) the expenditure, not being expenditure falling under
paragraph (a) or (6), incurred in respect of that business
of insurance;

(d7) such allowance as may be made each year by the

_ Commissioner in respect of unexpired risks: Provided
that the allowance granted under this paragraph in
respect of any year of assessment shall be included
in the income of the taxpayer in the following year of
assessment, and for that purpose any allowance
granted in terms of ssscaaraian tea) of ahagetiog (2)
of section grins of the Income Tax Act, 1941,
in respect of the year of assessment ended on the
thirtieth day of June, 1961, shall be deemed to be an
0 ieee which was granted under this paragraph;

(e) such allowance as may be made cach year by the
Commissioner in respect of claims which have been
cer te = a paid: rh gg eg that ne

inted under this paragraph in respect of any yea
ot aeeeaninest shall be erneluded dhs scsiens oF
the taxpayer in the following year of assessment, and
for that pacpase any allowance granted in terms of | |
paragraph (v) of sub-section ae of section eighteen
of the Income Tax Act, 1941, in respect of the
year of assessment ended on the thirtieth day of |

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 23TH MAY, 1962 93
June, 1961, shall be deemed to be an allowance which
was granted under this paragraph: Provided further
that in of the years of assessment ending on
the thirtieth day of June, 1962, and the thirtieth day of
June, 1963, the allowance under this paragraph shall be
fifty per cent and seventy-five per cent respectively |
of the allowance which the Commissioner would but
for this proviso have allowed. : |

(3) Nothing in this section contained shall be construed as
relieving any taxpayer from the obligation to render returns of
“— income (other than income to which the provisions of
sub-section (1) or (2) apply) or from any lability for taxation
in respect of such income or as depriving any such person of the
right to set off against the taxable income derived from the
business of insurance any loss incurred in respect of any other
business or any balance of loss so incurred which the taxpayer
would be entitled to set off under the provisions of sub-section
(1) of section twenty.

(4) In this section—

(i) “insurance” includes reinsurance; (ii) :

(ii) “long-term insurance business” means long-term
Insurance business as defined in the Insurance Act,
1943 (Act No, 27 of 1943), and includes any business
which in the opinion of the Commissioner is medical
aid insurance business conducted on a non-cancellable |
basis: (ii)

(i) “short-term insurance business” means any insurance
business other than long-term insurance business. (i) |

29. The taxable income received by or accrued to or in Taxable income
favour of any person from employment in the public service of public servants.
or the railway and harbour service of the Republic in respect
of such employment shall include any payment made by way of
allowance, except payments made to meet expenditure incurred
by such person in connection with his official duties,

30. When the business of any person, other than a person Persons carryin
carrying on the business of insurance or any other person in on business which
respect of whose business outside the Republic special provision yp i
1s Made under this Act, extends to any country outside the ~~ Republi
Republic, the taxable income or assessed loss of such person
shall be a stim which bears the same ratio to his total net
profits or total loss from all sources, as the case may be, cal-
culated in the manner provided in this Act for the determination
of taxable income or assessed loss, as his assets in the ae
bear to his total assets: Provided that if accounts satisfactory |
the Commissioner can be furnished, the Commissioner or
the taxpayer may claim that the actual taxable income derived
from sources within the Republic or loss incurred within the
Republic shall be assessed in the manner otherwise provided
In Act.

31. For the purpose of giving effect to any agreement entered Determination of
into under section one hundred and eight or one hundred and taxable income of
nine or the corresponding provisions of any previous Income tek we pe setiii
Tax Act, the Commissioner may—

(a) if any person carrying on business in the Republic
has omchased any commodity for fouortaten into
the Republic or has sold any commodity for export
from the Republic: and
(5) if such person participates directly or indirectly in
the management, control or capital of the business
of the buyer or seller of such commodity; or
(c) if any other person ue directly or indirectly
in the management, control or capital of the business
both of such first-mentioned person and of such buyer
or seller,
determine the taxable income of such first-mentioned person
as if such commodity had been purchased or sold, as the case
may be, at a price determined in accordance with the provisions
of the agreement.

32. (1) Any person who carries on in the Republic the sscesement in the
business of transmitting messages to places outside the Republic case of submarine
by submarine cables or by any form of wireless apparatus, cable or wireless
shall be deemed to have derived therefrom (apart from any >U!¢*.
taxable income derived from other sources) a taxable of

_ GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 291 MAY, 1962 95
ten rand for every two hundred rand payable to such sn
In respect of ees transmitted from any office of such
person in the Republic, whether the amount be payable in or
outside the Republic.
(2) For the ee? ea of this section any message which is
delivered at any office in the Republic of the person who carries 3
on the business referred to in sub-section () for transmussion
in any manner whatsoever shall be deemed to be transmitted
from that office.
(3) The provisions of this section shall not apply to any
person so carrying on business who renders accounts which
in the opinion of the Commissioner satisfactorily disclose the
taxable income derived by such person from the business
carried on by him in the Republic.
33. (1) Any person (not being a person ordinarily resident Assessment of
In the Republic or a company registered, managed or controlled Owners or
in the Republic) who embarks passengers or loads livestock, pang eed 4 ae
mails or goods in the Republic, as an owner or charterer of ordinarily resident
any ship or aircraft, shall be deemed to have derived therefrom or registesed,
(apart from any taxable income derived by him from other managed or —
sources) a taxable income of twenty rand for every two hundred ab in the
rand payable to him or to any agent on his behalf, whether the © =
amount be payable in or outside the Republic, in nor Ar of
leegregone livestock, mails and goods so embarked or loaded,
but the provisions of this section shall not apply to any such
person who renders accounts which in the opinion of the
Commissioner satisfactorily disclose the taxable income derived
by him from the embarking of passengers or the loading of
livestock, mails and goods as aforesaid.

(2) Where the person so embarking passengers or loading
livestock, mails or goods has no recognized agent in the Republic
other than the master of the ship or the pilot of the aircraft in
connection with which any such amounts are payable, or where
the agent fails to make returns of any such amounts payable in
respect of any ship or aircraft— .

(a) the Commissioner may make the assessment from such
Information as may be available to him;
(6) the tax thereon shall be payable to the Commissioner
prior to the clearance of the ship or aircraft:
(¢) the principal officer of customs at the port or ae oe
where such ship or aircraft is being cleared shall
have power to detain the clearance until such payment
is made: and
(2) upon such payment the master, pilot or agent (as the
case may be) shall be entitled to a certificate from such
officer of customs that the amount so paid has been
ep under the provisions of this Act, such certi-
ate shall be sufficient warrant to such master, pilot
or agent of the amount s0 paid.
_ . (1) any eae ag Fs to id sub-section (2) who opi Assesment of
income under or by virtue of any cqntract or agreement withany Persons not
other person in relation to the carrying on in the Republic by yet a
such other person of any business of distributing, exhibiting OF managed or.
exploiting motion picture films, orjof leasing such films to other controlled in the
persons, or of licensing other pérsons to exhibit or display Republic who
such films, or in relation to the atquisition of any advertising Ee ae en
matter for use in connection with such films, shall be deemed to “"™ ig!
have derived under or by virtue of Such contract or agreement a
taxable income equal to an amobnt arrived at by deducting
from an amount equal to ten per cent of the income derived
by him as aforesaid any expendjture and losses (other than
. expenditure or losses of a capital nature) actually incurred by
him in the Republic during the car of assessment under or by
virtue of such contract or ‘

(2) The provisions of this section shall apply to every person
(other than a company) who is not ordinarily resident in the
Republic and to every company which is not registered, managed
orcontrolled in the Republic. '

35. (1) Any person (not being a person who t ordinarily Assessmentof
sega MA ee nacebiie or a Ronnie which is bealeresoier§ ac ae ident
managed or controlled in the Republic) to whom any amount corestiared “=
referred to in paragraph (6) of section nine is deemed to accrue managed or
from a source within the Republic, shall (apart from taxable controlled in the
income derived by him from other sources) be deemed to have i tae ea
derived from that amount a taxable income equal to thirty per from rovailties -
cent of that amount. similar payments.

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29THJMAY, 1962 97
(2) (a2) Any person who incurs a liability to pay to any other

person (not being a person who ts ordinarily resident

in the Republic or a company which is registered,

managed or controlled in the Republic) any amount

referred to in paragraph (6) of section vine, or who

receives payment of any such amount on behalf of

such other person, shall within fourteen days after the

end of the month during which the said liability

Is incurred or the said payment is received, as the

case may be, or within such further period as

the Commissioner may approve, make a payment

(which shall be deemed to be an advance pay-

ment made on behalf of such other person) to the

Commissioner in respect of such other person's

obligation to pay normal tax for the year of assessment

during which the said amount accrues to or ts received
by such other person, calculated on a sum equal to
thirty per cent of the said amount at the rate of tax
applicable to the taxable income (other than taxable
income derived from mining operations in the Repub-
lic) of companies, and shail submit to the Commis-
sioner at the time of such tax payment a declaration
in such form as the Commissioner may prescribe:

Provided that—

(i) if the Commissioner is satisfied that the tax
payment required to be made in terms of this
paragraph in respect of the said amount has been
or will be made by any person, the Commissioner
mai direct that a ae apis who is in terms
of this paragraph required to make a tax payment |
in capac of the said amount, shall be rebieved of | ,
the duty to make such payment:

(i) for the purposes of this sub-section a person
having an address outside the Republic shall until
the contrary is proved be deemed to be not |
ordinarily resident in the Republic or, in the case
of a company, to be a company, which is not |
registered, managed or controlled in the Republic.

(6) Any person making a payment to the Commissioner
in terms of paragraph (a) shall, notwithstanding any
agreement to the contrary, be entitled to deduct or
withhold the amount of such payment from the :
amount which he is liable to pay to the aforesaid other
person, or to recover the amount so paid from such
other panes or to retain out of any money that may
be in his possession or may come to him as the agent
of such other person an amount equal to the amount of
such payment.

(c) The provisions of sub-section (2) of section jive shall |
mutatis mutandis apply in respect of payments made to
the Commissioner in terms of paragraph (a).

(@) A taxpayer on whose behalf a payment has been
made to the Commissioner in terms of paragraph (a)
shall not be entitled to recover the amount of such
payment from the person who under the provisions
of paragraph (4) dedi ucts, withholds or retains the
amount of such payment and shall be deemed to have
received the amount so deducted or withheld.

(e) Every person who is required to make a payment to the
Commissioner in terms of paragraph (a) shall be
personally liable for making such payment, and the
amount so payable shall be feces to be a tax due by
such person and shall be recoverable from him in the
manner prescribed in section minely-one.

(1) Nothing in this section contained shall be construed
as relieving any person to whom the provisions of
sub-section (1) apply from the obligation to render a
return of income for any year of assessment or from
paying any tax for which he may be liable or as de-
priving him of the right to prove for the purposes of
section one hundred and twa that payments made on his
behalf in terms of paragraph «) In respect of any year
of assessment were In excess of the amount of normal
lax properly chargeable under this Act in respect of

7 income received by or accrued to him during such year.

36. (1) Subject to the provisions of sub-sections (2) to 7), Calculation of
tachi oe saelinc to be deducted each year under Kofta : aac andl
(a) of section fifteen in respect of income from ce yeeros mednenied
shall be an amount (hereinafter referred to as the quotient) balance of capitat
obtained by— sa ae
(a) adding the balance of capital expenditure unredeemed mining operations.
at the commencement of the year of assessment after
— ri £ ng cna any sosdius th received
uring the year from capital expenditure (irrespective
of the date chen such capital expenditure was originally
incurred), to the amount of capital expenditure ranking
for redemption incurred during that year, excluding
so much of such capital expenditure as is deductible
under sub-section (6); and
(6) dividing the aggregate amount so obtained by the
estimated number of years (hereinafter referred to as
the life of the mine) during which mining operations
may be expected to continue.
(2) In the case of incomes derived from the working of any
diamond mines, there shall in lieu of the quotient be deducted in
respect of the year of assessment during which the production of
diamonds commences, the amount of capital expenditure
incurred up to the close of that year of assessment, and thereafter
in na go of each succeeding year of assessment the actual
capital expenditure incurred during such year of assessment.
(3) (a) The amount to be deducted each year under paragraph
(a) of section fifteen from income derived from the
working of a new gold mine shall, in respect of the
year of assessment during which such mine commences
the production of gold, be the amount of capital
expenditure incurred up to the close of that year of
assessment, and thereafter in respect of each succeeding
year of assessment, the actual capital expenditure
incurred during such year of assessment.
5) For the purpose of paragraph (a), any amount calcu- |
“) lated males te ethan () of i Mie finiti on of “capital
expenditure” in sub-section (11) in respect of any year
of assessment shall be deemed to be capital expenditure
incurred on the last day of such year of assessment.
(4) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (5), the amount to
be deducted each year in respect of income derived from the
working of gold mines other than new gold mines shall be an
amount equivalent to twenty-seven and a half per cent of the
sum of the unredeemed balance of capital expenditure at the
beginning of the year of assessment and the capital expenditure
incurred during that year, or the quotient resulting from |
dividing the said sum by the life of the mine, whichever is the
preater. |
(5) In the case of any person carrying on gold mining opera- |
tions other than on new gold mines, who commenced or
commences the production of gold after the thirty-first day of
December, 1935, the amount to be deducted with reference to |
each year of assessment, in respect of the capital expenditure
ranking for redemption incurred by that person prior to the date
of commencement of such production, shall, until the aggregate :
of the amounts deducted is equal to the amount of such capital
expenditure, be such sum as will when multiplied by ten or
(where the life of the mine as estimated or revised under the |
provisions of sub-section (8) or (9) is less than ten years) by
the number of years in life of the mine as so estimated or
revised, be equal to the amount of such capital expenditure:
Provided that any capital expenditure in respect of which a de- ,
duction is made under this sub-section shall not rank for de- ,
duction under sub-section (4). |
(6) There shall, in addition to the quotient referred to in
sub-section (1), be deducted under paragraph (a) of section
dna from income derived from the working of any mine other
than a copper mine in the district of Namaqualand in the
province of the en of Good Hope or the district of Letaba in
| the province of the Transvaal, or a gold or diamond mine,
twenty-five per cent of the capital expenditure incurred in respect
of such mine on or alter the fifteenth day of March, 1961, or
such percentage of the said capital expenditure in excess of
twenty-five per cent (but not exceeding one hundred per cent)
as may be directed by the Minister of Finance having regard in
the circumstances of the case to the degree to which the product

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY’, 1962 101
of such mine is processed in the Republic and to the recommen-
dations of the Secretary for Mines and the Secretary for Com-
merce and Industries.
(7) In the case of income derived from the working of any
copper mine in the district of Namaqualand in the province of
the Cape of Good Hope or the district of Letaba in the prOvisio®
of the Transvaal, there shall, in lieu of the quotient referred to in
sub-section (1), be deducted in respect of the year of assessment
during which the production of copper commences, the amount
of capital expenditure incurred up to the close of that year of
assessment, and thereafter in respect of each succeeding year of
assessment the actual capital expenditure incurred during that
year of assessment,
(8) The life of a mine shall be determined dg Government
Mining Engineer, but such determination shall be subject to
objection and appeal to the special court constituted under
Chapter III as if it were a decision of the Commissioner, and
where the life of a mine, estimated and determined as aforesaid,
exceeds thirty years the allowance shall, so long as the estimate
exceeds that period, be calculated on a period of thirty years.
(9) (a) The life of a mine shall be subject to revision at the
instance of the person liable to the tax or of the Com-
missioner, whenever any material alteration takes
place in any circumstances relating to the mine or its
working which affects the life of the mine, and shall
otherwise be subject to revision in every third year after
the last — determination, and in any such
revision the same provisions shall apply as in the origi-
nal determination of the life of the mine.
(6) No such revision shall affect any assessment determined
or any allowance made or presumed to have been
made under this Act or any previous law for the taxa-
tion of the profits of mining. |
(10) Where separate and distinct mining operations are
cafricd on in mines that are not contiguous, the allowance for
redemption of capttal expenditure shall be computed separately
according to the estimated life of each such mine.
(11) For the purposes of this section— |
“capital expenditure’ means—
(a) expenditure on shaft sinking and equipment,
including any single renewal or replacement
of equipment which together with the accessories
thereto exceeds in cost forty thousand rand; and
(6) expenditure on development, general administra-
tion and management (including any interest
and other charges payable after the thirty-
first day of December, 1950, on loans utilized
for mining purposes) prior to the commencement ,
of production or during any period of non-
production; and |
(c) in the case of any new deep level gold mine or
any other deep level gold mine, an amount
calculated as nearly as may be in the manner |
prescribed for the calculation of the capital
allowance provided for in sub-section (3) of
section aimefeen of the Precious and Base Metals
Act, 1908 (Act No. 35 of 1908), of the Transvaal
(in this paragraph referred to as the Gold Law), :
at the rate of five per cent i annum on the
amount of the unredeemed balance of the ag-
gregate of — :
(i) the expenditure referred to in paragraphs
(a) and (6), excluding any interest and
other Pog on loans referred to in para-
graph (5), if the mine is a new deep level gold
mine, or the balance of capital expenditure
unredeemed in terms of sub-section (1) at
the commencement of the year of assessment
during which the mine is recognized as any
other deep level gold mine, and the expenditure
referred to in paragraph (a), if the mine is any
other deep level gold mine; :
(it) the amount (if any) allowed to rank as
capital expenditure im terms of section
Whirly-seven; |
(iii) any expenditure incurred during any period
of Shih, se on aeveksnisnt Gian ie?
on which at the date of such development
stoping has not yet commenced; and |

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY, 1962 103

(iv) the — ar eahehgp be — of ~~

dfagraph up to the end of the year
seecsieat under this Act or the ‘Income
Tax Act, 1941, immediately preceding the
year of assessment under charge,

if the mine is a new deep level gold mine, for

the period from the end of the month in which

the expenditure is actually incurred or is in
terms of paragraph (4) of sub-section (3) deemed
to be incurred, up to the end of the year of
assessment immediately preceding the first year of
assessment in respect of which the determination
of the taxable income derived from the working
of such mine does not result m an assessed loss,
and, if the mine is any other deep level gold mine,
for a period of ten years from the commencement
of the year of assessment during which the mine is
recognized as any other deep level gold mine:

Provided that—

(aa) the amount under this paragraph shall not
be calculated for any period serine which
Mining operations are not carried on in
accordance with the terms of the relevant
lease:

(55) notwithstanding anything to the contrary
in any law contained, the amount under this
paragraph shall not be taken into account
for the purpose of calculating the capital
allowance provided for in sub-section (3)
of section nineteen of the Gold Law or for
the purpose of determining the profits o
which a share is pom to the State in
terms of any mining lease;

(cc) the provisions of sub-sections (4) and (4)dis
of section ninefeen of the Gold Law shall, in
so far as they can be applied, apply miufatis
mufandis for the purpose of determining the
unredeemed balance of the aggregate of the
amounts referred to in sub-paragraphs (1) to
(iv) of this paragraph;

“expenditure on shaft sinking” includes the expenditure
on sumps, en stations and ore bins
accessory (to a shait:

“expenditure means net expenditure after taking into
account any rebates, recoupments or returns from :
expenditure,

(12) The balance of capital expenditure unredeemed at the
commencement of the first year iiansenen chargeable under
this Act shall be the balance shown to be unredeemed at the end
of the last year of assessment chargeable under the Income Tax
Act, 1941.

37. (1) Whenever a change of ownership of a mining property Calculation of
Pic Commissioner shall allow to rank as api pean cane ee
ture for redemption by the new owner the effective value to him Qivnership of
at the time the change of ownership takes place, of the pre- mining property.
liminary surveys, boreholes, shafts, development and equipment
included in the assets spans, Bp such change of sags Pro-
vided that ifin.a case in which consideration is given, the effective
value of the assets so passing exceeds the consideration, the
amount allowed to rank for redemption by the new owner shall
be such proportion of the considcration as such effective value of
the preliminary surveys, boreholes, shafts, development and
equipment bears to the effective value of all the assets passing.

(2) The amount allowed to rank as capital expenditure for
redemption by the new owner under the provisions of sub-section

, (1) shall for the purposes of paragraph (j) of the definition of
“gross income” in section one or for the purposes of sub-section
(i) of section firty-six, as the case may be, be deemed to be a
recoupment from capital expenditure by the person from whom
ownership was acquired.

(3) If the value of the consideration given or of the property
passing where no consideration 15 given is in dispute, it may
with the consent of the new owner be fixed by the Commissioner
and shall failing such consent be determined in the same
manner as if transfer duty were payable.

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY, 1962 105

(4) The effective value at the time the change of ownership
takes place, of the assets passing shall be determined by the
Government Mining Engineer who shall notwithstanding the
repeal of the Second Schedule to the Transvaal Mining Leases
and Mineral Law Amendment Act, 1918 (Act No. 30 of 1918),
for the purposes of such determination have all the powers
which were conferred upon him by the provisions of that
Schedule,

PART I.
Special Provisions Relating to Companies.

38. (1) For the purposes of this Act a company shall in Classification of
respect of each year of assessment be recognized as either a “°™P*0"-
public or a private company, and the Commissioner shall upor
the request of any company inform that company whether it 1:
recognized as a public company or as a private company.

(2) The following companies shall, subject to the provisions of
section thirty-nine, + recognized as public companies, namely—

(a) any company all classes of whose equity shares are
publicly quoted on the specified date by a stock
exchange in the list issued under its authority, provided
the Commissioner is satisfied —
(i) that the stock exchange is a recognized and bona
fide stock exchange under adequate control;
(ii) that the rules and regulations of the stock ex-
change for granting and continuing a quotation
for the purchase and sale of shares provide for full
protection of the interests of the sablio In regard to
dealings in the shares of the company; :
(iii) that the memorandum and articles at association
of the company contain no such restrictions on the |
Tight to acquire or transfer any of its shares as are |
likely to preclude members of the general public |
from becoming sharcholders in any class of the
company's shares; and
(iv) that the general public was om gama the year
of assessment in question interested erther directly
as shareholders in the company or indirectly as
shareholders in any other public company, in more
than fifty per cent of every class of equity shares
issued by the company;
(6) any other company, not being a private company as
defined in section one Aundred and four of the Com- |
panies Act, 1926 (as in force on the twenty-sixth day of
June, 1946), in respect of which the Commissioner is
(i) that the general public was throughout the year
of assessment in question interested either
directly as shareholders in the company or in-
directly as shareholders in any other public com-
pany, in more than fifty per cent of every class of
equity shares issued by the company; and
(ij) that the business of the company is conducted
and its profits are distributed in such a manner
that no person enjoys or receives or is entitled , |
to enjoy or receive, by reason of shareholding,
participation in the management or otherwise, |
any advantage which would not be enjoyed
or received by him if the company had been
under the control of a board of directors actin
in the best interests of all its shareholders sind
had been one which could have been recognized
as a public company under paragraph (a);
(c) any company which the Commissioner is satisfied
was incorporated to serve a specified purpose, bene-
ficial to the public or a section of the public, if under
the constitution of the company no shareholder
is entitled to participate in he profits or income
of the company to an extent greater than seven per
| cent of the nominal value of his shareholding;
| (7) any society or company registered under the Co-
operative Societies Act, 1939 (Act No. 29 of 1939);
(ce) any insurance Society or company subject to assess-
ment in terms of section twenty-eight; )
() any public utility company, established by or under
a special Act of Parliament;

(7) any company the sole or principal business of which

a in the Republic 15 iain a coud or diamonds:
anc

(fh) any company to which the provisions of section
thirty-three apply.

(3) A company which at the specified date is not recognized
as a public company shall be recognized as a private com-

39. If owing to changes in the constitution or shareholding Redetermination
of any company which has been recognized as a public company °f company's
under paragraph (a), (4) or (c) of sub-section (2) of section ““™*
thirty-eight, or for any other reason, the Commissioner is
no longer satisfied of the matters of which he is in terms of
the applicable paragraph required to be satisfied, or the com-
pany ceases to comply with the requirements of that para-
eraph, the Commissioner may notify the public officer of
the company that it will as from the next succeeding specified
date be recognized as a private company.

40. The decision of the Commussioner in the exercise of Objection and
his discretion under paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of sub-section @Ppeal.

(2) of section fMirty-eight shall be subject to objection and . ,
appeal.
PART fil,
Non-resident Sharelolders’ Tax.

41, There shall be paid for the benefit of the Consolidated Levy of _
Revenue Fund a tax (in this Act referred to as non-resident caer od ban
shareholders’ tax) in respect of the amounts specified in section "2°"
forty-two.

42. (1) The non-resident shareholders’ tax shall be paid Income
in respect of the amount of— sehyeee We Eas

(ar) ay dividend (excluding such portion thereof as consists
of an interim dividend) which has been declared
by any company after the thirtieth day of June,

1962; and | |

(6) any interim dividend the payment of which has been
approved after that date by the directors of any
stor Bass or by some other person under authority
conferred by the memorandum and articles of asso-
ciation of that company,

if the shareholder to whom the dividend or interim dividend
has been paid or is payable is— |

(1) a person, other than a company, not ordinarily

 Tesident nor carrying on business in the Republic;
or |

(ii) a deceased estate referred to in sub-paragraph (i)
+ pe (k) of sub-section (1) of section fen
and such dividend is in terms of that sub-paragraph
exempt from normal tax; or

(lil) a company not registered nor carrying on business
in the Republic; or

(iv) the holder of bearer scrip, irrespective of whether

: he is resident within or outside the Republic, —
and was a shareholder as at the date of declaration of the
dividend, or if some date other than the date of declaration
of the dividend is specified as the date at which a shareholder
is required to be registered to be entitled to the dividend, as
at such other date.

(2) The non-resident shareholders’ tax shall not be payable
in respect of— |

(a) so much of the amount of any dividend declared by a
company which was, in respect of the year of assessment
ended on the thirtieth day of June, 1960, exempt from
undistributed profits tax in terms of paragraph (d), (e)
or (i) of section fifty-one of the Income Tax Act, 1941,

(hereinafter referred to as the distributing company)

to a company not registered nor carrying on business

in the Republic (hereinafter referred to as the share- :
holder company), a5 is proved to the satisfaction of the

Commissioner to have been distributed by way of an

award of bonus shares out of income which was

derived by the distributing company during any year |
of assessment which ended not later than the thirtieth

day of June, 1960: | |

(6) so much of the amount of any dividend declared by the
distributing company to the shareholder company as
remains after the deduction therefrom of a sum equal

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY, 1962 109
to the amount (if any) by which the aggregate of the
amounts Which were received by or accrued to the dis-
tributing company after the year of assessment ended
the thirtieth day of June, 1960, and which, in the opin-
ion of the Commissioner, were available for distribu-
tion to the sharcholder company by way of dividend,
exceeds the aggregate of the amounts of dividends
(excluding the dividend in question) declared by the
distributing company to the shareholder company
on or alter the sixteenth day of March, 1961, in respect
of which non-resident shareholders’ tax was payable
under this Act or the Income Tax Act, 1941; and

(c) dividends received from companies referred to in
paragraphs (d), (e), (/) and (4) of sub-section (2) of
section thirty-eight.

(3) Sub-section (2) shall not be construed as exempting from
non-resident shareholders’ tax any dividend payable + the
distributing company to the shareholder company in respect of
any share or by virtue of any right to participate in the income
or profits of the distributing company which the shareholder
company acquired after the specified date in relation to the return
of income of the distributing company for the year of assess-
ment ended the thirtieth day of June, 1960.

(4) For the purposes of this section, “dividend” or “interim
dividend” includes any dividend or interim dividend distributed
by a company out of or by way of the capitalization of the profits
of that company which had previously been apportioned among
its Shareholders in terms of section fhirty-seven of the Income
Tax Act, 1941, as the taxable income or income subject to super
tax of that company or in terms of section fhirty-seven bis of the
said Act as the apportionable income of that company. |

43. The person liable for the tax shall be the person to whom Person liable
or in whose favour the amounts described in section forty-two fr tax.

44, (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of section forfy-three Recovery of tax.
the tax shall be payable by and recoverable from the persons
sct out hereunder, namely—

(a) in the case of dividends distributable by any company
to any person whose address appearing in the share
register of the company is outside the Republic or
to any holder of bearer scrip, the company by which
the dividend 15 declared; or

(5) in the case of dividends received by any agent in the
Republic on behalf of any shareholder referred to in
section forty-two, the agent so receiving the dividend.

(2) For the ge for of this section a person shall be deemed
to be the agent of a shareholder mdierad to im section forty-two
and to have received a dividend on behalf of that shareholder
if that person’s address appears in the share register of the
company as the registered address of the diavehales and the
dividend warrant or cheque in payment of the dividend dis-
tributable to the shareholder 1s delivered at that address:
Provided that any person so deemed to be the agent of any
shareholder shall as regards such shareholder and in respect of
any income received by or accruing to him or in his favour have
and exercise all the powers, duties and responsibilities of an
agent for a taxpayer absent from the Republic.

(3) Nothing contained in sub-section (2) shall be construed
as relieving any company by which a dividend is declared from
the duties and responsibilities imposed upon it by section
ninety-eight as the agent of any shareholder or member absent
from the Republic.

(4) Any tax payable in terms of this section by any company
or agent for any shareholder may be recovered by such company
or such agent, as the case may be, from the shareholder

45, The rate of tax shall be seven and one-half per cent of Rate of tax.
the amounts specified in section /fortp-fwe.

el

46. If any amount specified in section forty-two has been Determination _
received from a company which derives income from sources pila bndrc
within and outside the Republic, the tax payable in respect of the Republic. |
that amount shall be calculated upon an amount which bears }
to that amount the same ratio as the sum of the net profits
of the company derived from sources within the Republic
bears to the total sum of its net profits derived from all sources
as last determined by the Commissioner for the purposes of
this Act or the Income Tax Act, 1941, or, in cases in which
there has been no previous determination by the Commissioner,
as estimated by the Commissioner according to such infor-
mation as is available to him.

47. (1) The company which in terms of paragraph (a) of Date of payment
sub-section (1) of section forty-four is required to pay the tax ° '*-
on any dividend shall pay to the Commissioner the tax due
such dividend within thirty days, or within such further period
as may be approved by the Commissioner, of the date on which
the dividend 1s payable, and shall furnish him with a return
showing the names and addresses of the persons (with the
amount in cach case) to whom the dividend accrues and in
the case of dividends payable in respect of bearer scrip the
total dividends distributable to holders of such scrip.

(2) The agent in the Republic by whom the tax is payable
in terms of paragraph (4) of sub-section ) of section fort a
shall, within thirty days of the date of delivery of the dividend
warrant or cuegee in payment of the dividend at his address,
or within such further period as may be approved by the Com-
missioner, pay the tax to the Commissioner and furnish him
with a return showing the amount of the dividend and the
name and address of the person to whom it has accrued.

(3) The provisions of sub-sections (1) and (2) shall not prevent
the Commissioner from recovering from the person liable
any tax which has not been paid and which the Commussioner
may ascertain to be due, after the dates specified in the said
sub-sections.

PART IV.
Undistributed Profits Tax.

48. Subject to the provisions of section jiffy, there shall be Levy of
paid for the benefit of the Consolidated Revenue Fund in undistributed ,
respect of the year of assessment ending the thirticth day of Proll’ tax an
June, 1962, and cach suceceding year of assessment thereafter, =
by every private company registered or carrying on business
In the Republic, a tax (im this Act referred to as undistributed
profits tax) of fifty cents on every two rand of the amount by
which the distributable income of such company exceeds the
amount of the dividends distributed by it during the specified
period.

49. In this Part— ciency ret

| murposes of this

(i) “deficit” for the purposes of the definition of “total Part
net profits” means any amount, as established to the _ -
satisfaction of the Commissioner, by which the sum
of the deductions admissible in the determination
of total net profits under this Act or the Income
Tax Act, 194], exceeds the sum of the amounts
from which they are so deductible, and in relation
to any year of assessment preceding that which ended
on the thirtieth day of June, 1955, or in relation to
any year of assessment ending on or after that date
in respect of which the company was not subject to
undistributed profits tax, means any amount, as
established to the satisfaction of the Commissioner,
by which the sum of the deductions which would
have been admissible in the determination of total
net profits exceeds the sum of the amounts from
which they would have been so deductible if in respect
of the first-mentioned year of assessment the pro-
visions of this Part had been in operation or in respect
of the last-mentioned year of assessment the company
had been subject to undistributed profits tax; (iv)

(ii) “distributable income”, in relation to any company
in respect of any year of assessment, means the
amount arrived at by deducting from the sum of—

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY, 1962 113
(a) the total net profits of the company for the year
of assessment; and
(6) all amounts deducted in terms of paragraph (11)
of this definition or the corresponding pro-
visions of any previous Income Tax Act in the
determination of the company’s distributable
income, whether in the current or any previous
year of assessment, which have been recovered
or recouped by it during the current year of
assessment,
the sum of—
(1) any taxes on income (excluding undistributed
profits tax) payable by the company in respect
of all amounts included in its total net profits;
(il) an allowance equal to forty per cent of so much
of the sum of the amounts referred to in para-
graphs (a) and (5) of this definition as is not
attributable to the inclusion in the profits of
such company of any dividends received by or
accrued to it; and
(1) in the case of any company which, whether in
the current or in any previous year of assessment,
has concluded a contract for the acquisition by
it of any new or unused machinery or plant
and which satisfies the Commissioner that within .
a period of three years after the end of the current
year of assessment such machinery or plant will
be brought into use by it for the purposes of its
trade and will be used by it directly in a process
of manufacture, an allowance in respect of the |
current year of assessment equal to the portion,
1 if any, of the cost price of such machinery or
plant paid by it during that year of assessment: |
Provided that— a
(aa) any company may in respect of any such
new or unused machinery or B copes elect to
deduct as an allowance under this sere ph,
In respect of the year of assessment during
which such machinery or plant is brought into
use by it for the purposes of its trade and is
used by it directly in a process of manu-
facture, an amount equal to the cost to it
of such machinery or plant, which allowance
shall be in lieu of and not in addition to any }
allowances to which such company would
but for such election have been entitled
under the preceding provisions of this
Paragraph in respect of such machinery
_ or plant;
(65) if in the determination of the distributable
income of any company for any year of
assessment any amount has been allowed
to be deducted under this paragraph (other
than an amount referred to in paragraph
(aa) of this ‘pte or the corresponding |
provisions of any previous Income Tax |
Act in respect of any machinery or plant,
and such machinery or plant is not brought
into use and used by such company directly |
In a process of manufacture within three
years after the end of such year of assessment,
such amount shall for the purposes of sub-
section (1) of section seventy-nine be deemed
to be an amount which the Commissioner is
satisfied should have been subject to tax
for such year of assessment and which has
not been assessed to tax;
(iv) an allowance equal to thirty per cent of any
amount which has in terms of sub-paragraph
(1) of paragraph 18 of the First Schedule been
Included in the income of the company for the
year of assessment; (vi)
(ili) “fair value", in relation to any asset, means the fair
market value of such asset: and in the determination
of the fair market value of any asset regard shall be |
had, infer alia—
(a) to any sworn valuation of the asset which may be
furnished by or on behalf of the company con-
cermed;

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 291TH MAY, 1962 115
(6) to any valuation of the asset made by any com-
poet and disinterested person appointed by the
(c) to any other relevant facts within the knowledge
of the Commissioner or the company concerned
which either of them considers could reasonably
be taken into account; (ii)
iv) “paid w ital” (except where that expression is
7 saad in parsneank ix = sub-section (2) ‘of section
fifty-two), in relation to any ch jens Berm the
nominal value of the up capital of that company
reduced as provided in the said paragraph and ex-
cluding so much of the nominal value mr ppt bonus
shares as did not rank as a dividend in terms of
paragraph (¢) of the definition of “dividend™ in
section one or the corresponding provisions of any
previous Income Tax Act; (iti)
(¥v) “specified period”, in respect of any year of assessment,
means the of twelve months endmeg six months
after the specified date for that year of assessment as
defined in section one; (i)
(vi) “total net profits’, in relation to any company in
respect of any year of assessment, means the net
profits of that company for such year of assessment
calculated in the manner prescribed for the deter-
mination for normal tax purposes of taxable income
in respect of that year of assessment (without applying
the provisions of paragraph (a) of sub-section (1) of
section twenty), but irrespective of whether the profits
are derived from a source within or outside the
Republic, and subject to the inclusion in the profits of
such company of all dividends from whatever source
and any amounts referred to in paragraphs (A) and
(i) of sub-section (1) of section fen received by or
accrued to such company during such year of assess-
ment, and all amounts deducted in terms of paragraph
(a) of this definition or the corresponding provisions
of any previous Income Tax Act in the determination
of the company’s total net profits, whether in the
current or any previous year of assessment, which
have been recovered or gly. iy by it during the
Current year of assessment, less the following amounts,
namely— ,
(a) any expenditure (other than expenditure of a
capital nature) which is proved to the satis-
faction of the Commissioner to have been actually
and necessarily incurred by the company during
the year of assessment in the course and by
reason of its ordinary business operations and
which but for this paragraph would not have |
been allowable as a deduction in the determina-
tion of the company’s total net profits; and

(®) any deficit incurred by the company which has
been brought forward from the preceding year
of assessment: Provided that the deficit shall be
reduced by the amount or value of any benefit
received by or accruing to the company resulting
from 4 concession granted by or a compromise
made with such company's creditors whereby
its liabilities to them have been reduced or
extinguished, if such liabilities arose in the
ordinary course of trade. (v)

50. There shall be exempt from undistributed profits tax— Exemptions,

(a) any association referred to in paragraph (d) of the
definition of “company” in section one:

(6) companies in respect of which the provisions of
sechons ffirty-two, thirty-four and thirty-six are by
virtue of the definition of “total net profits” in section

_ GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY, 1962 117
forty-nine applicable to the determination of that
portion of their total net profits which is derived from
their principal business;

(¢) any company in which shares ghar not less
than seventy-five per cent of such company’s issued
capital are held by one or more companies in respect
of which the provisions of section fhirfty-six are by
virtue of the definition of “total net profits” in section
jorty-nine applicable to that portion of their total
net profits which is derived from their principal
business:

(@) any company which satisfies the Commissioner that
shares representing not less than fifty per cent of its
equity share capital were throughout the specified
period held by one or more persons (other than
companies) not ordinarily resident nor carrying on
business in the Republic, or by one or more companies
registered outside the Republic and deriving the greater
portion of their profits for the year of assessment
In question from sources not within or deemed to
be within the Republic or by one or more such persons
(other than companies) and one or more such com-
panies: Provided that for the purpose of determining
the portion of its profits which has been derived by
any company from sources within or deemed to be
within the Republic for any year of assessment there
Shall be included in the profits derived by such
company from sources within or deemed to be
within the Republic as well as in the profits derived
te it from all sources during such year of assessment
the amount, if any, by which the dividends received
by or accrued to such company during such year of
assessment from any company registered in the
Republic are less than the dividends which would
have been received by or would have accrued to
such firstmentioned company from such company
registered in the Republic if the latter had distributed
by way of dividends during such year of assessment
an amount equal to not less than thirty per cent of
its total net profits for the said year of assessment;

(e) any “company registered outside the Republic which
carries on business in the Republic and satisfies the
Commissioner that not more than fifty per cent of
its total net profits for the year of assessment in
question was derived from sources within or deemed
to be within the Republic:

(jf) any company (other than a company whose total
net profits are derived solely or mainly from dividends)
which satisfies the Commissioner that the amount
arrived at by deducting from the sum of all its reserves
(including any share premium account) and balance
of profits unappropriated as at the specified date,
together with an amount equal to so much of the
nominal value of any bonus shares awarded to
shareholders on or after the first day of July, 1957,
as did not rank as a dividend in terms of paragraph (2)
of the definition of “dividend” in section one or the
corresponding provisions of any previous Income
Tax Act, the sum of the dividends distributed by
such company during the last six months of the
specified period and the taxes on income (excluding
undistributed profits tax} payable by such company
in respect of all amounts included in its total net
profits for the year of assessment in question did not
exceed the greater of the following amounts, namely—

(i) one hundred thousand rand; or ,
(i) forty per cent of such company’s paid up capital
as at the specified date;

(¢) any company whose total net profits for the year of |

- gssessment in question did not exceed five per
cent of its paid up capital as at the specified date;

(4) the South African Reserve Bank, the National Finance
Corporation of South Africa, any building society

and any company registered as a banking institution
under the Banking Act, 1942 (Act No. 38 of 1942);

(i) any company all of whose equity shares were throughout
the specified period held by the Government or by
one Or more private companies which are themselves
exempt from this tax in terms of this section excluding
paragraphs ( f} and (¢), or by one or more public
companies and one or such private companies
or partly by one or more public companies or such
private companies and partly by persons other than
companies if, in the case of any company whose
equity shares were partly held by persons other than
companies as aforesaid, the Commissioner is satisfied
that the company would have been recognized as a
public company in terms of paragraph (a) of sub-
section (2) of section fhirty-eight for the year of assess-
ment in question if the shares held by persons other
than companies had represented. the company’s
total share capital and the holders of the said shares
had been the company’s only shareholders.

51. The Commissioner shall after the close of the specified Assessment of
period issue an assessment to the public officer of the company ieee
of the amount by which the distributable income for any year" =
of assessment exceeds the dividends distributed by such company
during such x fosnepin period and shall state in such assessment
the amount of tax payable and the place where and the date on
which such tax shall be paid.

52. (1) The liability for undistributed profits tax for any Special provisions
year of assessment of any company which 1s registered outside OI
the Republic and carries on business in the Republic shall be Sirti rote
determined as if—

(a2) that portion of the total net profits which was derived
by the company during such year of assessment from
sources within or deemed to be within the Republic
represented company’s total net profits for that
year of assessment;

(6) the sum of the company’s reserves (including any
share premium account) and balance of profits un-
appropriated (together with an amount equal to so
much of the nominal value of any bonus shares
awarded to shareholders on or after the first day of
July, 1957, as did not rank as a dividend in terms of
paragraph (¢) of the definition of “dividend” in
section one or the corresponding provisions of any
previous Income Tax Act) which in the opinion of the
Commussioner are attributable to its business in the
Republic represented the sum of all its reserves
(including any share premium account) and balance :
of profits unappropriated (together with an amount
equal to so much of the nominal value of any bonus
shares awarded to shareholders on or after the first
day of July, 1957, as did not rank as a dividend as
aforesaid):

(c) the paid up capital of the company as at the specified
date no ie to an rfiica. Hy wh ich bears ip stich
company's paid up capital the same ratio as its assets
in the Republic bear to its total assets:

(@) the company had distributed by way of dividends
during the specified period or any portion thereof an
amount which bears to the amount of the dividends,
if any, actually distributed by it during such period
or such portion thereof, as the case may be, the same
ratio as that portion of the total net profits which
was derived by the company during such year of
assessment from sources within or deemed to be within
the Republic bears to the company's total net profits
for that year of assessment.

(2) (a) If any company has received as consideration for
the issue by it of any share in such company an asset
other than cash and the Commissioner considers }

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY, 1962 [21
that the fair value of such asset as at the date of the
issue of the share was less than the nominal value of
such share, the paid up capital of such company
shall for the purposes of this Part be reduced by the
amount by which in the opinion of the Commussioner
the nominal value of such share exceeded the fair
value of such asset as at the said date.

(6) The provisions of paragraph (a) shall apply nwtaris

- mufandis where any company has received any asset
as consideration for the payment by it of any amount
in cash and the issue by it of any share in such com-
pany.

(c) If in terms of any agreement the purchase price (or
any portion thereof) pee by any company for any
asset acquired by it had to be applied in the acquisition
byanypersonofanysharesto beissued bysuchcompany,
that company shall, to the extent to which the said pur-
chase price was required to be applied in the acquisition
of such shares, be deemed for the purposes of para-
graphs (a) and (6) to have received such asset as
consideration for the issue by it of such shares.

53. The decision of the Commissioner in the exercise of his Objection and
discretion under paragraph (a) of the definition of “total net “P?**
profits” in section forty-nine, paragraph (d), (e) or (Cf) of
section fifty or paragraph (a) or (6) of sub-section (2) of section
Jifty-two shall be subject to objection and appeal.

PART F.
Donations Tax.

54, Subject to the provisions of section fifty-six, there shall 7 o
be paid for the benefit of the Consolidated Revenue Fund a =~ =
tax (in Act referred to as donations tax) on the cumulative
taxable value of all property disposed of (whether directly or
indirectly and whether in trust or not) under donations which
take effect on or after the first day of July, 1962, by any person
(in this Part referred to as the donor) who, in the case of a
person other than a company, is ordinarily resident in the
Republic, or, in the case of a company, is registered, managed
or controlled in the Republic.

55. (1) In this Part, unless the context otherwise indicates— purposes of this

(i) “cumulative taxable value” means the sum of the *2"*
values (excluding such values or such portions of such
values, as the case may be, as are exempt from dona-
trons tax in terms of section jifry-six) of all property
disposed of by any person under donations which
take effect on or after the first day of July, 1962; (iv)

(ii) “donation” means any gratuitous disposal of property
Including any gratuitous walver or renunciation of a
right; (Vv)

(i) “donee” means any beneficiary under a donation
and includes, where property has been disposed of
under a donation to any trustee to be administered
by him for the benefit of any beneficiary, such trustee:

Provided that any donations tax paid or payable by any |
trustee in his capacity as such may, notwithstanding

anything to the contrary contained in the trust deed

concerned, be recovered by him from the assets of

the trust: (1)

(iv) “fair market value” in relation to immovable property
on which bona fide farming operations are being ,

, carried on means, at the option of the donor, cither—

(a) the fair market value thereof; or

(6) an amount to be determined in accordance with
the provisions of sub-section (2) as representing
the aggregate of the fair agricultural or pastoral
Value of the land and the value which any im-
provements situated thereon may be expected to
add to such value of the land (which aggregate
is hereinafter referred to as the surface valuc)

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY, [362 123
a ——EE
together with the fair market value of any mineral
rights attaching to the land, as at the date upon
which the donation takes effect; (1) |
(v) “property means any oe in or to property movable
or immovable, corporeal or incorporeal, wheresoever
(2) ( Ry ogc a f in respect of which the
(2) (a) In the case of any property in respect of which t
donor elects the value determined in accordance with
paragraph (5) of the definition of “fair market value”
in sub-section (1), the donor shall lodge an applica-
tion in the Beagle form in duplicate for a deter-
mination of the surface value of that property with
the magistrate of the district in which such property
18 situate, -
(b) Any magistrate with whom such an application has
been lodged shall forward both copies thereof to a
land bank valuater selected by him who has been
appointed in terms of section seventy of the Land Bank
Act, 1944 (Act No. 13 of 1944), with instructions to
make a valuation of the surface value of the property
in question. }
(c) The provisions of the Land Bank Act, 1944, applicable
to valuators under the said Act, and any instructions ‘
issued from time to time by the Land Bank to such
valuators in connection with the exercise of their
duties, shall apply to any such valuator instructed to
make a valuation of the surface value of any such
property, as though he were making a valuation for
land bank purposes. |
(dq) Fees and travelling expenses shall be paid by the
donor to any such valuator in accordance with the
tanifs applicable to the valuation of property by :
ee appraisers appointed by Masters of the Supreme
ourt,
(¢) Any land bank valuator to whom any such application
in duplicate has been referred, shall cause the par-
ticulars of his valuation of the surface value of the
property in question to be inserted on both copies
of the application and shall within three days from
the date on which his valuation was made forward |
one copy to the donor the remaining copy to the |
magistrate for transmission to the Commissioner.
Cf) The Commissioner shall, subject to the P shee
of paragraph (fi), thereupon determine the surface
Value of the property in question, or may refer the : |
matter to the Board of the Land Bank as constituted
under section four of the Land Bank Act, 1944 (in this
section referred to as the Board), for its determination
of such value. | |
(g) The Commissioner shall at the same time determine
the fair market value of the mineral rights attaching
to the property in question and shall advise the donor |
of the values determined by him under this paragraph
and paragraph () and shall indicate in such advice
whether the determination of the surface value of the
property was made by him or by the Board.
(i) If the donor considers himself aggrieved by the Com-
missioners determination of the surface value of any !
property in terms of paragraph (/) he shall notify the
Commissioner thereof in writing within twenty-one |
days or such further period as the Commissioner may
allow from the date of the advice referred to in para-
graph (¢) and the Commissioner shall thereupon
cause the matter to be referred to the Board for
(f) For the purposes of its determination under paragraph ,
() or (4) the Board shall apply the same principles
and follow the same practice and procedure as in the
case of a determination by it of the value of property |
for land bank purposes.
(Cj) Any person duly authorized thereto by the Board shall
at all reasonable times have full access to the property
the value of which is being determined by the Board. |
(k) There shall be no appearance by or on behalf of either |
party before the Board, whose decision shall be
final and shall be communicated in duplicate to the
Commissioner who shall forward one copy thereof
‘to the donor, |
(3) For the purposes of this Part a donation shall be deemed
to take effect upon the date upon which all the legal formalities
for a valid donation have been complied with.

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY, 1962 125
56, (1) Donations tax shall not be payable in rerecet of the Exemptions.
value of any property which 15 disposed of under a donation—

(a) to the spouse of the donor under a duly registered
ante-nuptial contract or post-nuptial contract;

(6) to the spouse of the donor who is not separated from
him under a judicial order or notarial deed of
separation;

(c) as a donatio mortis causa;

(7) in terms of which the donce will not obtain any benefit
thereunder until the death of the donor:

(e) which is cancelled within six months from the date
upon which it took effect;

() if such property consists of any right in or to an
insurance policy which is disposed of by means of a
cession in terms of which such right is to revert to
the cedent if the cessionary predeceases the cedent;

(g) if such property consists of any right in immovable
“ede oe situate outside the Republic and was acquired
by the donor—

(i) not less than ten years before the date upon which
the donation takes effect; or

(ii) before the donor, being a person other than a
company, for the first time became ordinarily
resident in the ni: jee or was, in the case of a
company, for the first time registered, managed or
controlled in the Republic; or

(iii) by inheritance;

(i) by or to any person pacer any government),
referred to in paragraph (a), (4), (d), (e) or (o) of
sub-section (1) of section fen:

(i) by or to any institution for the advancement of science
or art or of a charitable, educational or ecclesiastical
nature, If the Minister of Finance is satisfied that the
operations of such institution are in the interest of

(j) if such Property or the income therefrom is required
to be devoted wholly to purposes which the Minister
of Finance is satisfied are in the interest of the public
and which are of a charitable, educational or ecclesia-
stical nature; -

(<) as a voluntary award the value of which 1s required
to be included in the gross income of the donee in
terms of paragraph (3 or (27) of the definition of
“gross Income’ In section one; |

(1) if such property is disposed of under and in pursuance
of any trust;

(m1) if such property consists of a right (other than a
fiduciary, usufructuary or other like interest) to the
use or occupation of property used for farming
purposes, for no consideration or for a consideration
which i not an adequate consideration, and the
donee 1s a child of the donor, |

(2) Donations tax shall not be payable in respect of—

(2) so much of the sum of the values of all casual gifts |

made by the donor on or after the first day of July, |
1962, and during the period ending on the first ,
specified date following the thirtieth day of June, 1962,
and commencing cither on the first day of January,
1962, or on the day following the specified date
immediately preceding such first specified date,
whichever is later, or during any ate ending on any
specified date subsequent to such first specified date
and commencing on the day following the specified
date immediately preceding such subsequent specified
date, as docs not exceed one thousand rand: Provided
that—

(i) where any such period exceeds or is less than |
twelve months, the amount in respect of which
the tax shall not be payable in terms of this para-
graph shall be an amount which bears to one
thousand rand the same ratio as that period bears
to twelve months:

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY, 1962 127

(ii) in the case of any such period which commenced

before the first day of July, 1962, the aforesaid

amount of one thousand rand (where the period

is twelve months) or the amount determined

in accordance with paragraph (i) of this proviso

(where the period exceeds or is less than twelve

months) shall be reduced by an amount equal

to the sum of the values of all casual gifts made

by the donor from the commencement of the

period in question to and including the thirtieth

day of June, 1962;
ii) for the purposes of this paragraph “specified :
m) date” in "elation to any Seeicr sh all have the

meaning assigned thereto in the definition of that

expression in section one, the reference in the

said definition to a company being construed

as including a reference to a person other than

a company:

(6) so much of the value of all property disposed of by
the donor under a donation on any date to or for
the benefit of his children as, together with so much
as was exempt from donations tax in terms of this
paragraph or paragraph (6) of sub-section (2) of
section fifty-four quat of the Income Tax Act, 1941,
of the sum of the values of all property disposed of
under donations before such date by the donor to
or on behalf of his children, does not exceed the
sum arrived at by multiplying the amount of ten
thousand rand by the number of children of the
donor who are alive on the said date, and for the
purposes of this paragraph any cluld of a deceased
child of the donor shall be deemed to be a child of the
donor, but if more than one child of any one deceased
child is alive on the date referred to in this Pasaren
the children of that deceased child shall be regarded
as a single child of the donor as at that date;

(c) so much of any Sena fide contribution made by the
donor towards the maintenance of any person asthe ~
Commissioner considers to be reasonable,

57. (1) If any property is disposed of under a donation by a Donations by a
woman married in or out of community of property and not wife or oe ona
separated from her husband under a judicial order or notarja] CoTPorate at the
deed of separation, that property shall for the purposes of this eae of any
Part be deemed to be'disposed of under a douation by her“
husband: Provided that—

a) any tax paid or pay tp 3 the husband in respect of ~

2 any eraperty disposed ' under a donation ee the
wife may be recovered from the assets of the wife;

(6) if either the husband or the wife makes written appli-
cation therefor to the Commussioner or the Com-
missioner considers it desirable, separate payments
may be made by, or separate notices of assessment
may be sent to, the se gosh spouses in respect of the
property disposed of under any donation by such
husband and wife, respectively, but the total amount
of such separate payments or the total tax payable in
respect of the separate assessments so issucd, as the
case may be, shall not be less than the total amount of
tax which would have been payable by the husband
alone if the value of the property disposed of under a
donation by the husband and wife together had been
assessed as the value of property disposed of under a
donation by the husband alone.

(2) If any property is disposed of under any donation by any
body corporate at the instance of any person, that property
shall for the purposes of this Part be deemed to be disposed
of under a donation by that person: Provided that any tax
paid or payable by any person In respect of any property so
disposed of under a donation by any body corporate may be
recovered from the assets of that body corporate.

(3) For the purposes of sub-section (2 yperty shall be
Pai to be disposed of under a toautlen eae body cor-

porate at the instance of any person if, having regard to the
circumstances under which that donation was made by such
body corporate, the Commissioner is of the opinion—

(a) that it was not made in the ordinary course of the
normal income earning operations of that body
corporate; and

(5) that the selection of the donee who benefited by the
donation was at the instance of that person.

58. Where any property has been disposed of for a con- Property
sideration which, in the opinion of the Commissioner, is not an : : meee "a onlay
it wat consideration that property shall for the purposes of deemed to have
this Part be deemed to have been disposed of under a donation: been disposed of
Provided that in the determination of the value of such property under a donation,
a reduction shall be made of an amount equal to the value of
the said consideration.

59. The person liable for donations tax shall be the donor; Persons liable
Provided that if the donor fails to pay the tax within the period aoe Es COX
prescribed in sub-section (1) of section sixty the donor and the
donee shall be jointly and severally liable for the tax.

60. (I) Donations tax shall be payable within three months Payment and
or such longer period as the Commissioner may allow from the ofthe tax,
date upon which the donation in question takes effect and shall
be paid to the receiver of revenue for the district within which
the donor (in the case of any person other than a company) 1s
ordinarily resident bp the case of any company) is registered,
managed or controlled.

(2) Where a donor has disposed of property under more than
one donation in respect of which donations tax is payable the
tax payable in respect of each such donation shall be calculated
according to the order in which such donations took effect.

(3) Where a donor has disposed of property under more
than one donation on the same date those donations shall for
the purpose of determining the tax payable in respect of each
donation be deemed to have taken effect—

(a) in such order as the donor may elect; or

(6) if the donor fails to make an election within fourteen
days after having been called upon by the Com-
missioner to do so, in such order as the Commissioner
may determine,

(4) The payment of the tax in terms of sub-section (1) shall
be accompanied bya return in such form as may be prescribed
by the Commissioner.

(5) The Commissioner may at any time assess either the
donor or the donee or both the donor and the donee for the
amount of donations tax payable or, where the Commissioner

18 satisfied that the tax payable under this Part has not been
paid in full, for the difference between the amount of the tax
payable and the amount paid, but the payment by cither of the
said parties of the amount payable under such assessment
shall discharge the joint obligation,
61. For the purposes of the donations tax— Extension of
: : a ie . scope of certain

(a) any reference in sub-section (1) or (2) of section provisions of Act
seventy-four, paragraph (c) or (ad) of sub-section (1) for purposes of
of section seventy-five or paragraph (a) or (e) of the ¢omations tax.
definition of “representative taxpayer” in section ene
to the income of any person or to the gross income
received by or accrued to or in favour of any person.
shall be deemed to include a reference to property
disposed of by any person under a donation or to
the value of such property, as the context may require;

(6) the reference in sub-section (2) of section seventy-four
to any person entitled to or in receipt of any income
shall be deemed to include a reference to any person
who has disposed of property under a donation;

(c) the reference in section seventy-ecight to the taxable |
income in relation to which any return or information
is required shall be decmed to include a reference to
the value of any property disposed of under a dona- ,
tion in relation to which the return or information

7

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY, 1962 131
(dq) the reference in paragraphs (5) and (c) of the definition
of “representative taxpayer” in section one to the
income under the management, disposition or control
of an agent or to income the subject of any trust,
as the case may be, shall be deemed to include a
reference to any property disposed of under a donation
which 1s under the management, disposition or control
of the agent or to property disposed of under a dona-
tion which is the subiect of the trust, as the case may be.
(e) the reference in sub-section (1) of section ninety-five
to the income to which a representative taxpayer is ) rn
entitled in his representative capacity, or of which
in such capacity he has the management, receipt,
disposal, remittance, payment or control shall be
deemed to include a reference to any property dis-
posed of under a donation of which a representative
taxpayer in his representative capacity has the manage-
ment, rte = remittance, payment or
control, and the reference in the said sub-section to
income received by or accruing to or in favour of
such a person beneficially shall be deemed to include
a reference to property deposed of by such a person
in his own right under a donation.
62, (1) For the purposes of donations tax the value of any Value of property
st shall be deocied to be— | Giiposed of under
OnaAtTIONs.
(a) in the case of any fiduciary, usufructuary or other like
interest in property, an amount determined by
capitalizing at six per cent the annual value of the
right of enjoyment of the property over which such
interest was or is held, to the extent to which the
donee becomes entitled to such right of enjoyment,
over the expectation of life of the donor, or if such
right of enjoyment is to be held for a lesser period
than the life of the donor, over such lesser period; |
(5) in the case of any nae to any annuity, an amount ) |
equal to the value of the annuity capitalized at six
per cent over the expectation of life of the donor,
or if such right is to be held by the donce for a lesser
period than the life of the donor, over such lesser
period;
(c) in the case of a right of ownership in any movable or
immovable property which is subject to a usufructuary
or other like interest in favour of any person, the
amount by which the fair market value of the full
ownership of such prowesty exceeds the value of such
interest, determines
(i) in the case of a usufructuary mterest, by capitaliz- |
ing at six per cent the annual value of the right
of enjoyment of the property subject to such
usufructuary interest over the expectation of life
of the person entitled to such interest, or, if such | ,
right of enjoyment is to be held for a lesser
period than the life of such person, over such
(ii) in the case of an annuity charged upon the
property, by capitalizing at six per cent the
amount of the annuity over the expectation of
life of the Layiey entitled to such annuity, or,
if it 1s to be held for a lesser period than the
life of such person, over such lesser period; or
(iii) in the case of any other interest, by capitalizing
at Six per cent such amount as the Commissioner
may consider reasonable as representing the
annual yield of such interest, over the expectation
of life of the person entitled to such interest, or,
if such interest is to be held for a lesser period
than the life of such person, over such lesser
period;

(dq) in the case of any other property, the fair market
value of such-property as at the date upon which the
donation takes effect: Provided that in any case in
which, as a result of conditions which in the opinion
of the Commissioner were imposed by or at the
instance of the donor, the value of any property is
reduced in consequence of the donation, the value
of such property shall be determined as though the
conditions in terms of which the value of the said
property is reduced in consequence of the donation,
had not been imposed. )

(2) For the purposes of paragraphs (a) and (c) of sub-section
(1) the suited Vubab of the right of enjoyment of a property
means an amount equal to six per cent upon the value of the
full ownership of the property which is subject to any fiduciary,
usufructuary or other like interest: Provided that—

(a) where it is established to the satisfaction of the Com-
missioner that the property which is subject to any
such interest could cask reasonably be expected to
produce an annual yield equal to six per cent on such
Value of the property, she Cosaniesiones may fix such
sum as representing the annual yield as may seem to
him to be reasonable, and the sum so fixed shall for
the purposes of paragraph (a) of sub-section (1) be
deemed to be the annual value of the enjoyment of
such property;

(6) where the property which is subject to any such interest
consists of books, pictures, statuary or other objects
of art, the annual value of the right of enjoyment
shall for the purposes of paragraph (@) of sub-section
(1) be deemed to be the average net receipts (if any)

erived by the person entitled to such right of enjoy-
ment of such property during the three years im-
mediately preceding the date on which the donation
took effect.

(3) Where for the purposes of sub-section (1) any calculation
is required to be made over the expectation of life of any
person, such calculation shall, in the case of a person who is
not a natural person, be made over a period of fifty years.

(4) If the Commissioner is of the opinion that the amount |
shown In any return as the fair market value of any property
other than property whereof the fair market value has been
determined in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (2)
of section puty-five, 1s less than the fair market value of such
property, he may fix the fair market value of that property, |
and the value so fixed shall, subject to the provisions of section
sixty-three, be deemed for the purposes of this Part to be the
fair market value of such property.

(5) In fixing the fair market value of any property in terms |
of sub-section (4), the Commissioner shall fave regard infer ,
alia— :

(a) to the municipal or divisional council valuation (if any) :
of such property; |

(5) to any sworn valuation of such property furnished by |

©) or on behalf of the donor or fio Games: and : |

(c) to any valuation of such property made by any compe-
tent and disinterested person appointed by the
Commissioner.

63. The decision of the Commissioner in the exercise of his Objection and
discretion under sub-section (3) of section ji/ty-seven, sub- appeal.
paragraph (iii) of paragraph (c) of sub-section (1) of section
sixty-two or the proviso to paragraph (d) of the said sub-section
(1) or sub-section (4) of section sixty-two, and any determination
by the Commissioner under pamegrere (z) of sub-section (2)
of secuion ji/ty-five of the value of the mineral rights attaching
to any property, shall be subject to objection and appeal.

64. (1) The rate of the donations tax shall be as follows: Rate of

donations tax.

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY, 1962 135
| Rate of

Cumulative Taxable value of Property Disposed of Tax

under Donations. Per
Cent. |

On so much of the cumulative taxable value of

property disposed of the donor under
donations—

as does not exceed K8,000 “ee a a 3
asexceeds R&,000 but does not exceed R.10,000 4
» oo 10,000 ‘ os R.12,000 5
» oo RI12,000 ” st F.14,000 )
» » REO  ,, » R16,000 q
>» oS 8,000 ‘i # R20,000 9
1" » R20,000 " rr R22,000 10
ole 22,000 a - R24,000 ll
td ai R26,000 +e Bf R28,000 I 3
Pe in R28,000 if re R32,000 14
+ * R 36,000 Ly 7H R40,000 l 6
» » R40,000 ,, ” R44,000 7
re a R.44,000 o re R48,000 18
» oo» R400 ,, " R52,000 19
» ow Ro200 ,, ‘i R56,000 20
» oo» 456,000 " a Ré60,000 Zl
$3 da R60,000 rT +s R70,000 22
PT i R70,000 PT BT R80,000 23
iF fi RE0,000 a a R90,000 24

(2) For the purpose only of determining [in accordance with
the rates prescribed in sub-section (1)] the rate of tax payable
in respect of the value of any property disposed of by any donor
under any donation, the cumulative taxable value of all property
se gr of by such donor under donations which took effect 3
before the donation in question shall be increased by an amount

ual to the cumulative taxable value [as defined in sub-section
(i) bebe oe ff tert ~ - the In —— ce ots te oe
its repeal is Act] of all property disposed o . onor
under donations which sok altect teksts the first day of July,

1962, and the amount so arrived at shall for the said purpose
be deemed to represent the cumulative taxable value OF all
property Siccend, of by the donor under donations which took
effect before the donation in question.
GENERAL PROVISIONS. :
PART I.
Returns.

65. All forms of returns and other forms required for the Returns to be in
administration of this Act shall be in such form as may be form prescribed
prescribed by the Commissioner from time to time. iia se

66. (1) (@) The Commissioner shall annually give public Notice by

notice that all persons liable to taxation under the ac anne
provisions of this Act, whether personally or in any pate Sn of
representative capacity, are required to furnish within taxes under this
thirty days after the date of such notice, or within Att 4nd manner
such further time as the Commissioner may for good obey
cause allow, returns for the assessment of the tax. interim returns.
(6) For the purposes-of this sub-section, persons liable
to taxation under the provisions of this Act shall be
deemed to include—
(i) any person who rendered, or was required to
render under this Act or any previous Income
Tax Act, a return in respect of the last preceding
year of assessment and who has not been advised
by the Commissioner in writing that he is not
required to render a return in respect of the year
of assessment under charge;

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY, 1962 137
(ii) any person, other than a company, whose
income for the year of assessment under charge
exceeded the amount to be stated by the Com-
oe in the notice referred to in paragraph
(iii) any company which derived gross income during
the year of assessment under charge.
(2) Such notice shall state the places at which the prescribed
forms may be obtained, and it shall be the duty of all such .
persons, and of all persons required by this Act to furnish
such returns, to apoly fir the prescribed forms of returns.
(3) Any such person failing to furnish such returns shall
not be relieved from any penalty by reason only of his havin
récelved no notice to furnish the same or of the sreocribed
form not having been delivered to him, but the Commissioner
may, if he deems it advisable, cause forms to be delivered or
sent by post to any person.
(4) The Commissioner may, prior to the issue of any such
annual notice, require any person by notice in writing to render
interim returns for any period he may designate in such
notice, and may proceed to make an assessment in respect of
that period.
(5) (a) Every person shall on publication of the annual
notice or on receipt of a form delivered or sent by
post as provided in sub-section (3) or of a notice |
issued in terms of sub-section (4), prepare and deliver
in the prescribed manner within the time mentioned | |
in any such notice or form to the person appointed
to receive the same, a return in the form prescribed,
giving the particulars required and all other details
In relation thereto which may be prescribed.
(5) Any such return shall be signed by the taxpayer or by
his agent duly authorized in that behalf, |
(6) Any person signing any such return shall be deemed for
all purposes in connection with this Act to be cognizant of all
statements made in that return.
(7) Any return made or purporting to be made or signed by |
or on behalf of any person for the purposes of this Act, shall
be deemed to be duly made and signed by the person affected
unless such person proves that such return was not made or :
signed by him or on his behalf.
(8) If any person fails to make such a return, the Com- |
missioner may appoint a person to make a return on behalf
of such person, and the return made by the person so appointed
shall for all the purposes of this Act be deemed to be the return
of the person liable to make the same.
(9) The returns furmshed by or on behalf of any person
required to furnish returns under this Act shall contain such
particulars, be in such form, and be furnished to the person
appointed to receive the same at such time as may be prescribed
by the Commissioner. |
(10) The Commissioner may, when and as often as he thinks
necessary, require any person to make further or more detailed
returns respecting any matter of which a return is required or
prescribed by this Act.
(11) All returns required to be furnished under this Act
shall be delivered at, or sent by post to, the prescribed address.
(12) Any such return shall, if marked with the words “Income |
Tax" and “Official” be carried and delivered free of postal or
other charges by the postal department.
(13) The return of income to be made by any person in |
etapa of any year of assessment chargeable under this Act
shall be a full and true return for the whole period of twelve
months ending upon the last day of the year of assessment ,
under charge: Provided that where it is established to the
satisfaction of the Commissioner that the income of a person
cannot be conveniently returned for that period, the Com- |
Mssioner may accept returns made up to a date agreed to by
him which returns shall be deemed for all purposes of this |
Act to be returns for the periods covered by the years of assess-
ment under charge, and the taxpayer shall not without the
consent of the Commissioner be entitled to make a return in
respect of any subsequent year of assessment to a date other | |
than the date so agreed to.

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY, 1962 139

(14) If aay person when called upon to furnish a return
under this Act is unable to furnish such return, the Com-
missioner may accept a return of estimated income for assess-
ment, and such assessment shall be adjusted by the Com-
missioner if and when an actual returm of income ts furnished.

(15) Persons carrying on any business in partnership shall
make a joint return as pariners in ag 0 of such business,
together with such particulars as may from time to time be
prescribed, and each partner shall be separately and individually
liable for the rendering of the joint return.

67. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, Hallf-yearly
the Commissioner may require any person whose sole or princi- Teturns by
pal business is mining for gold, to furnish, in respect of each fn gold aie
year of assessment, half-yearly returns for the assessment of ~ ceasilla
the taxes leviable under this Act.

(2) Any such return shall be furnished within months
of the close of the half-year to which it refers, and the person
furnishing it shall simultaneously pay to the Commusstoner
the amount of any tax appearing theref : Bos to be payable.

(3) Any return furnished and any payment made in respect
of the first half-year of any year of assessment shall be treated
by the Commissioner as a provisional return and a provisional
payment respectively, and the Commussioner in making hus
assessment im respect of the year of assessment as a whole
shall make such adjustments as he considers necessary to bring
the assessment into accord with the liability of the taxpayer
for such year of assessment.

(4) The Commissioner shall recover from or repay to any
such person any amount whereby the assessment in respect of
the year of assessment as a whole exceeds or falls short of any
payment made by such person in respect of the tax for the year
of assessment.

68. (1) The income received by or accrued to or in favour Income of
of a woman married with or without community of property a deste
and not separated from her husband under a judicial order or Shidrea.
written agreement shall be included by himin returns of income —
required to be rendered by him under this Act: Provided that if
either the husband or the wife makes written application
therefor to the Commissioner or the Commissioner considers
it desirable, returns of income-may be required to be rendered
by any such husband or wife separately.

(2) In the event of the death of the husband during any year
in respect of which such income is chargeable, the income of
the wife for the period clapsing between the date of such death
and the last day of the year of assessment shall be returned
as the separate income of such wife.

(3) (2) Every parent shall be required to include in his

return any income received by or accrued to or in
favour of any of his minor children either directly
or indirectly from himself or his wife, together with
such particulars as may be required by the Com-
missioner.
(6) Every parent shall be required to include in his return
any income deemed to be his in terms of sub-section
(3) or (4) of section seven. !

69. (1) Every person shall, if required by the Commissioner, Duty to furnish
furnish to him, in such form and within such time as may be saairictans wo
prescribed or as the Commissioner may direct, returns showiNg— earnings and

(a) the names and addresses of all persons or of all persons ———o
of any particular class employed by him, and the
earnings, salary, wages, allowances or pensions,

: whether in money or otherwise, received by or accrued

to or in favour of each such person in respect of such
employment;

(5) all amounts received by or accrued to or in favour of
any person in respect of any share or interest in any
business carried on by the person furnishing
return;

(¢) all moneys received by the person furnishing the return
from any person for investment or on loan or on
deposit with | or without interest;

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY, 1962 141
(d@) all interest or rent received by or accrued to or in
favour of any person from the person furnishing the
return or from any business carried on by the last-
named in the Republic;
(e) all interest, rent or dividends collected for or on behalf
of any person by the person furnishing the return;
(f) all such other information in his possession with
regard to the income received by or accrued to or in
favour of himself or of any other person as may be
required by the Commissioner.
(2) In addition to the returns specified in sub-section (1),
every person, whether a taxpayer or not, shall, if, required
by the Commissioner, supply such information and furnish
such returns or such further or other returns as the Commissioner
may require.
(3) Every person to whom a form of return or a written
request for information is sent by the Commissioner shall
complete the form of return or comply with the written tape
for information in accordance with the requirements of the
Commissioner and shall return the completed form or furnish
the information to the Commissioner at such place and within
such time as the Commissioner may direct. —
70, (1) Every company which pays interest upon or in respect Duty of
of debentures or debenture stock or which pays interest on any Sioa equ |
loans or advances shall, within thirty days after the thirtieth ["™" ™™™:-
day of June in each year, furnish to the Commissioner a return
giving the full name and address of each person receiving such
interest and the amount of interest so paid.
(2) Every company which pays any dividends, awards any
bonus shares, 8 se or securities or pays any liquidation
dividends to shareholders in such company, in respect of the
shares held by them, shall within thirty days after the thirtieth
day of June in each year furnish to the Commissioner a return
giving the full name and address of each shareholder and the
amount or value of such payment or award to each such
ey eee r ci
(3) Every private company registered or carrying on business
in the Republic shall within thirty days after the thirtieth day
of June in each year furnish a return giving the name and
address of and the number of shares held by every person
who on the specified date was a shareholder of the company.
(4) Every company shall file with the Commissioner a copy
of the memorandum and articles of association constituting
the company and copies of all amendments thereto.
(5) Every company shall, within thirty days of the registra-
tion by the Registrar of Companies of any prospectus proposed
to be issued by it, fle with the Commissioner a copy of the
71. Every bank carrying on business in the Republic or Return of |
company dudics in or negotiating bearer warrants shall —? fends
a record of all payments in respect of interest or dividends sis ini sas
made to any person by means of bearer warrants, and shall in
such manner and form and at such times as may be presenbed
or as the Commissioner may require, furnish particulars of
such payments. |
7zZ. Every person who makes a return of his own income or Return as to
in a representative capacity makes a return of the income of shareholdings,
some other person, shall attach to such return a statement
showing fully—
(7) the number of shares in any company registered in
the name of the taxpayer for whom the return is
: rendered ;
(5) the dividends from any company received by or
accrued to the taxpayer for whom the return is :
rendered:
(c) the name and address of the person, if the taxpayer
for whom the return is rendered is not entitled to
retain the dividends received or accrued from any
company, or, in the case of a private company, to ,
participate in the profit or income of any such com-
pany, who, under any agreement or arrangement, is
entitled to receive and retain such dividends or to
participate in such profit or income;
(@) the number of shares in any company which are not
registered in the name of the taxpayer for whom
the return is rendered but In respect of which such
taxpayer under an agreement or arrangement with

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY, 1962 143

the registered owner obtains all dividends payable
by such company or in the case of a private company
the rights of the registered owner to participate in the
profit or income of such company;

(e) the dividends so received by the taxpayer for whom
the return 1s rendered from the person in whose

| name such shares are registered,

73. (1) If any person submits in support of any return Duty of persons
furnished by him under this Act any balance sheet, statement Submitting
of assets and liabilities or account prepared by any other person, support of returns
he shall, if the Commissioner so requires, submit a certificate or preparing
or statement by such other person recording the extent of the accounts for
examination by such other person of the books of account and ©!her persons.
of the documents from which the books of account were written
up, and recording in so far as may be ascertained by such
examination, whether or not the entries in such books and
documents disclose the true nature of any transaction, receipt,
accrual, payment or debit.

(2) Any person who has prepared any balance sheet, state-
ment of assets and liabilities or account for any other person
Shall, at the request of such other person, furmish him with
the certificate or statement required under sub-section (1).

74, (1) For the purpose of obtaining full information in Production of
respect of any Income of any taxpayer or of any part thereof, ae wor
the Commissioner may require any person to produce for“
examination by the Commissioner, or by any person appointed
by him for that purpose, at such time and place as may be
appointed by the Commissioner in that behalf, any deeds,
plans, instruments, books, accounts, trade lists, stock lists or
documents which the Commissioner may deem necessary for
the eepoes of this Act, and if any such deeds, plans, instru-
ments, books, accounts, lists or documents are not in one of
the official languages, the Commissioner may by notice in
writing op the taxpayer to produce at his own expense
and at such time and place as may be appointed, a translation
In one of the official languages prepared and certified by a
swom translator or a person other than a sworm translator
approved by the Commissioner.

(2) (a) The Commissioner may by notice in writing require

any entitled to or in receipt of any income
(whether on his own behalf or as the representative
of any person) or any person whom the Commissioner
may deem able to furnish information, to attend at a
time and place to be named by the Commissioner
for the purpose of being examined on oath respecting
the income of any such person or any transactions or
matters a a the same or any of them or any
art thereof,

(6) Any person so attending may be allowed by the Com-
missioner any reasonable expenses necessarily incurred
by him in so attending, |

(3) Any officer engaged in carrying out the provisions of this
Act who has in relation to the affairs of a particular person
been authorized thereto by the Commissioner in writing or by
telegram, may, for the purposes of the administration of this
Act—

(a) without previous notice, at any time during the day
- enter any premises whatsoever and on such premises
search fo r any moneys, books, records, accounts or
@) documents; a ‘ ‘
5) in carrying out any such search, open or cause
removed opened, any article in which he suspects
any moneys, books, records, accounts or documents
to be contained;
(c) seize any such books, records, accounts or documents |
as in his opinion may afford evidence which may be
material in assessing the liability of any person for
any tax;
(d) retain any such books, records, accounts or documents
for as long as they may be required for any assessment
e for any criminal or other proceedings under this |
ii

(4) Any authorized person exercising any power under
sub-section (3) shall on demand produce the written authority
furnished to him by the Commissioner.

(5) The person to whose affairs any books, records, accounts
or documents seized under sub-section (3) relate, shall be

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY, 1962 145
entitled to examine and make extracts from them during office
hours under such supervision as the Commussioner may
determine.

75. (1) Any person who hae de

(a) fails or neglects to furnish, file or submit any return
or document as and when required by or under this
Act; or

(5) without just cause shown by him, refuses or neglects to
furnish any information or reply or to attend and give
evidence as and when vecesingt by the Commissioner
or any officer duly authorized by him or to answer
truly and fully any questions put to him or to produce
any books or papers required of him by the Com-
missioner or any such officer; or .

(c) fails to show in any return made by him any portion
of the gross income received by or accrued to or in
favour of himself or fails to disclose to the Com-
missioner, when making such return, any material
facts which should have been disclosed: or

(dq) fails to show in any return prepared or rendered by
him on behalf of any other person any portion of
the gross income received by or accrued to or in
favour of such other person or fails to disclose to
the Commissioner, when preparing or making such
return, any facts which, if 60 disclosed, might result
In increased taxation; or

(e) obstructs or hinders any officer in the discharge of his
duties: Or

(Cf) not being a person whose gross income consists solely
of salary, wages or similar compensation for personal
service, without just cause shown by him fails to
retain for a period of five years from the date of the
last entry therein all ledgers, cash books, journals,
cheque books, bank statements, i ge sit slips, paid
cheques, invoices, stock lists and all other books of
account relating to any trade carried on by him and
recording the details from which his returns for the
assessment of taxes under this Act or any previous
Income Tax Act were prepared; or

(¢) submits or furnishes a false certificate or statement
under section seventy-three.

shall be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding one hundred rand or to imprisonment for a
period not exceeding three months or to both such fine and
such imprisonment.

(2) The Commissioner may, subject to such conditions as he
may determine, and in respect of such books (other than
ledgers, cash books and journals) or documents as he may
specify, authorize the retention of a microfilm copy of any book
or document referred to in sub-section (1) in lieu of the original

(3) Any person who has been convicted under sub-section
(1) of failing to furnish any return, information or reply shall, if
he fails within any period deemed by the Ciitruilaaientaie to be
reasonable and of which notice has been given to him by the
Commissioner, to furnish the return, information or reply in
respect of which the offence was committed, be guilty of an
offence and liable on conviction to a fine of ten rand for each
day during which such default continues or to imprisonment
without the option of a fine for a period not exceeding three
months.

76. (1) A taxpayer shall be required to pay in addition to the Additional tax in
tax chargeable in respect of his taxable income— the event at

(a) if he makes default in rendering a return in respect of ©™550"-
any year of assessment, an amount equal to twice the
tax chargeable in respect of his taxable income for that
year of assessment; or

(6) if he omits from his return any amount which ought
to have been included therein, an amount equal to
twice the difference between the tax as calculated in
respect of the taxable income returned by him and
the tax properly chargeable in respect of his taxable
prota as determined after including the amount
omitted ;

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY, 1962 147

(c) if he makes any incorrect statement in any return

‘rendered him which results or would if accepted
result in the assessment of the normal tax at an
amount which is less than the tax properly chargeable,
an amount equal to twice the difference between the
tax as assessed ed in accordance with the return made by
him and the tax which would have been. properly
chargeable,

(2) (a) The Commissioner may remit the additional charge
imposed under sub-section (1) or any part thereof as
he may think fit: Provided that, unless he is of the
opinion that there were extenuating circumstances, he
shall not so remit if he is satisfied that any act or
omission of the taxpayer referred to in paragraph (a),
(5) or (c) of sub-section (1) was done with intent to
evade taxation. |

(5) In the event of the Commissioner deciding to
remit the whole of the additional charge imposed
under sub-section (), his decision shall be subject to
objection and appeal.

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of this sub-section, the
Commissioner may either before or after an assess-
ment is issued agree with the taxpayer on the amount
of the additional charge to be paid, and the amount so
rnc upon shall not be subject to any objection and
appeal,

(3) The additional amounts of tax for which provision is
made under this section shall be chargeable in cases where the
taxable income or any part thereof is estimated by the
Commissioner in terms of section seventy-ecight or agreed upon
with the taxpayer in terms of the proviso to sub-section (2) of
the said section as well as in cases where such taxable income
or any part thereof 1s determined from accounts rendered by
the taxpayer. ,

(4) The powers conferred upon the Commissioner by this
section shall be in addition to any right conferred upon him by
this Act to take proceedings for the recovery of any penalties
for evading or avoiding assessment or the payment of tax or
attempting to do so.

(5) Any taxpayer who in determining his taxable income as
disclosed by his return, deducts or sets off any amount the
deduction or set-off whereof is not permissible under the
provisions of this Act, or shows as an expenditure or loss any
amount which he has not in fact expended or lost, shall be
deemed for the purposes of this section to have omitted such
amount from his return.

(6) Any taxpayer who wilfully fails to disclose in any return
made by him aay facts which should be disclosed and the
disclosure of which would result in the taxation of the taxpayer's
income on an amount which is higher than the amount upon
which such income would be taxable on such return, shall for
the purposes of this section be deemed to have omitted from
- return the amount by which the former amount exceeds the
alter.

(7) If in any year of assessment in which the determination
of the taxable income of the taxpayer does not result in an
assessed loss, he is entitled to the set-off of a balance of assessed
loss from the previous year of assessment and such balance is
less than it would have been had it been calculated on the basis
of the returns rendered by him, he shall for the purposes of this

‘ section be deemed to have omitted from his return for the first-
mentioned year of assessment an amount equal to the difference
between the amount at which such balance is finally determined
and the amount at which it would have been determined on

° the said basis.

PART I,
Assessments.

77. (1) All assessments required to be made under this Act Assessments and
shall, subject to the provisions of section three, be made by "cording thereof.
the Commissioner or under his direction.

(2) The particulars of every assessment and the amount of
tax payable thereon shall be recorded or filed and kept in the
office of the Commussioner: Provided that any assessment so
recorded or filed may be destroyed by the Commissioner after
the expiration of such period from the date of recording or
imog &3 may be approved by the Controller and Auditor-
General. :

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY, 1962 149

(3) Upon recording or filing the particulars of any assessment
the Commussioner shall give notice of the assessment and of the

(4) Such notice shall be sent to such person by post or
delivered to such person in such other manner as the Com-
missioner may consider necessary or convenient.

(5) The Commissioner shall, in the notice of assessment,
give notice to the taxpayer that any objection to the assessment
made must be sent to him within twenty-one days after the date
of such notice.

(6) Any separate returns which may be rendered by spouses
In terms of the proviso to sub-section (1) of section sixty-eight
shall be separately assessed and separate notices of assessment
shall be sent to the respective spouses: Provided that the
total tax payable in respect of the separate assessments 50
issued shall not be less than the total amount which would
have been payable by the husband alone if the incomes of both
husband and wife had been assessed as the income of the
husband alone.

(7) Separate assessments shall, notwithstanding the pro-
visions of sub-section (15) of section sixty-six, be made upon
partners.

78. (1) In every case in which any person makes default in Estimated
furnishing any return or information or the Commissioner is 255¢55ments.
not satisfied with the return or information furnished by any
person, the Commussioner may estimate either in whole or in
part the taxable income in relation to which the return or
information is required,

(2) Any such estimate of the taxable income shall be subject
to objection and appeal: Provided that if it appears to the
Commissioner that any person is unable from any cause to
furnish an accurate return of his income, the Commissioner
may agree with such person as to what amount of such income
Shall be taxable income and any amount so agreed upon shall
not be subject to any objection or appeal.

79, (1) If at any time the Commissioner is satisfied that any Additional
amounts which should have been subject to tax have not been ®55¢ssmens.
assessed to tax either under this Act or any previous Income
Tax Act, he shall raise assessments in respect of such amounts,
notwithstanding that assessments may have made upon
the person concerned in respect of the year or years of assess-
ment in respect of which the amounts in question are assessable,
and notwithstanding the provisions of cub-section (5) of section
eighty-one and sub-section (18) of section eighty-three or the
eee provisions of such previous Income Tax Act:

Provided that the Commissioner shall not raise an assessment
under this sub-section—

(a) after the expiration of three years from the date of
assessment in terms of which any amount which should
have been assessed to tax under such assessment was
not so assessed, unless the Commissioner is satished
that the amount was not so assessed because of fraud
or misrepresentation or non-disclosure of material
facts; or

(5) if the peta? which pet have been oa np
was in accordance with the practice generally prevailin
at the time when the sonia caer oan? made aor et,
to tax; or

(¢) in respect of any amount if any previous assessment
made on the person concerned for the year of assess- |
ment in question has in respect of that amount been
amended or reduced pursuant to any order made by
a special court for hearing income tax appeals consti-
tuted under the provisions of this Act or any previous |
Income Tax Act, unless the Commissioner ts satisfied
that the order in question was obtained by fraud or
mistepresentation or non-disclosure of material facts.

(2) For the purposes of this section any amount referred
to in sub-section (1) shall include an amount the incorporation :
of which in an assessment would result in the reduction of any
loss ranking for set-off or in only a portion of such amount
becoming chariesble with tax. |

(3) The provisions of sections seventy-six and seventy-eight
shall apply to any assessments or additional assessments made by |
the Commissioner under the powers conferred by this section.

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MA, 1962 151

&0. The record of assessments shall not be open to public Inspection of
inspection, but every taxpayer shall be entitled to copies corde!
certified by or on behalf of the Commissioner of such recorded ““8™"°""
particulars as relate to him.

PART HI,
Objections and Appeals.

$1. (1) ee to any assessment made under this Act Time and manner
may be made within twenty-one days after the date of the
assessment notice, in the manner and under the terms prescribed ~““""
by this Act by any taxpayer who is agerieved by any assessment
in which he is interested.

(2) No objection shall be entertained by the Commissioner
which is not delivered at his office or posted to him in sufficient
time to reach him on or before the last day appointed for
lodging objections, unless the Commissioner is satisfied that |
reasonable grounds exist for delay in lodging the objection.

(3) Every objection shall be in writing and shall specify in
detail the grounds upon which it is made,

(4) On receipt of a notice of objection to an assessment the
Commissioner may reduce or alter the assessment or may
disallow the objection and shall send the taxpayer notice of
such alteration, reduction or disallowance, and record any
alteration or reduction made in the assessment.

(5) Where no objections are made to any assessment or where
objections have been allowed or withdrawn, such assessment
or altered or reduced assessment, as the case may be, shall, ©
subject to the right of appeal hereinafter provided, be final and
conclusive.

$2. The burden of proof that any amount is exempt from or Burden of proof
not liable to any tax chargeable under this Act or is subject aieeear
to any deduction, abatement or set-off in terms of this Act, ahatements.
shall be upon the person claiming such exemption, non-liability,
deduction, abatement or set-off, and upon the hearing of any
appeal from any decision of the Commissioner, the decision
shall not be reversed or altered unless it is shown by the apnellant
that the decision 15 wrong.

83. (1) Any person entitled to make an objection who is Appealto
dissatisfied with any decision of the Commissioner as notified er pega
to him in terms of sub-section (4) of section eighty-one MAY Commissioner's
appeal therefrom to a special court for hearing income tax decision.
appeals, constituted in accordance with the provisions of this
section.

(2) Every court 50 constituted shall consist of a judge of the
Supreme Court who shall be the President of the court, an
accountant of not less than ten ycars* standing, and a represen-
tative of the commercial community: Provided that in all cases
relating to the business of mining such third member shall if
the appellant so desires be a qualifed mining engineer,

(3) The State President may, by proclamation in the Gazetre,
constitute such court or courts for such area or areas as he
may think fit, and may from time to time by such proclamation
abolish any existing court or courts or constitute such additional
courts as circumstances may require.

(4) Any appeal lodged under the provisions of the Income
Tax Act, 194], may be heard and determined by any court
constituted or decmed to be constituted under the provisions
of this Act.

(5) (a) The members of any such court other than judges

shall be appointed by the State President by pro-
clamation in the Gazette, and shall hold office for
five years from the date of the relevant proclamation:
Provided that the appointment of any such member
may at any time be terminated by the State President
for any reason which he considers rood and sufficient,

and shall lapse in the event of the abolition of the
court in terms of sub-section (3).

(5) Any person so appointed shall be eligible for re-
appointment for such further period or periods
as the State President may think fit.

(c) The members of any special court for the hearing of
income tax appeals constituted under the provisions
of the Income Tax Act, 1941, shall be deemed to have

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY, 1962 153
——————————————————————————
been appointed under the provisions of this sub-
section,

(6) The Judge-President of the Provincial Division of the
Supreme Court having jurisdiction in the area for which a
court has been constituted shall nominate and second a judge
of an acting judge of such division to be the President of such
court, and such secondment shall be for such period or for the
hearing of such cases as the said Judge-President shall determine.

(7) (a) Every notice of appeal shall be in writing and shall

be lodged with the Commissioner within a period of
thirty days after the date of the notice mentioned in
sub-section (4) of section eighty-one, and no such
notice of appeal shall be of any force or effect whatso-
ever unless it is lodged within the said period,

(5) At any such appeal the person who made the objection
shall be limited to the grounds stated in his notice
of objection. }

(8) If an assessment has been altered or reduced, the assess-
ment 25 altered or reduced shall be deemed to be the assessment
against which the appeal is made.

(9) At least ten before the date fixed for the hearing of
an te the Commissioner shall send to the person who made
the objection or to his duly authorized attorney or representa-
live a written notice of the time and place appointed for the
hearing of such appeal. |

(10) The hearing of an appeal may be adjourned by the court
from time to time to any time and place that may seem con-
vement.

(11) The sittings of the court for the hearing of such appeals
shall not be ep and the court shall at any time on the
application of the appellant exclude from such sitting or require
to withdraw therefrom all or any aed whomsoever whose
attendance is not necessary for the hearing of the appeal under
consideration.

(12) The Commissioner or any person authorized by him
may appear in support of the assessment on the hearing of any
appeal, and the appellant and any person who is Interested in
such appeal may appear in person or by his counsel, attorney
or arent.

(13) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the court may—

(a) in the case of any assessment under appeal, order such
assessment to be amended, reduced or confirmed, or
may if it thinks fit refer the assessment back to the
Commissioner for further investigation and assess-
ment ;

(6) in the case of any appeal against the amount of the
additional charge imposed by the Commussioner
under sub-section (1) of section seventy-six, reduce,
confirm or increase the amount of the additional
charge 50 imposed; |

(c) in the case of any other decision of the Commissioner
which is subject to appeal, confirm or amend such
decision.

(14) Any assessment made by the Commissioner on reference
under sub-section (13) shall be subject to objection and appeal
as in this Part provided,

(15) Any matter of law arising for decision before the court,
and any question as to whether a matter for decision is a
matter of fact or a matter of law, shall be decided by the
President of the court, and the other members shall have no
voice In such decision.

(16) Any decision of the court shall be recorded by the
Commissioner, |

(17} The court shall not make any order as to costs save
when the claim of the Commissioner is held to be unreasonable
or the grounds of appeal therefrom to be frivolous.

(18) Any decision of the court under this section shall,
subject to the provisions of section eighty-six, be final.

&4. (1) The Commissioner, the appellant or the President Summoning of

: of a special court may procure the attendance of any witness ea
(whether residing or for the time being within the area of FO ee
jurisdiction of that court or not) in the manner prescribed in _
the regulations.

(2) If any person who has been duly subpoenaed to give
evidence at the hearing of an appeal or to produce any book,
record, document or thing im his possession or under his control,
fails without reasonable cause to attend or to give evidence or
to produce that book, record, document or thing according to
the subpoena or, unless by the President of the court,

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 2911 MAY, 1962 155

to remain in attendance throughout the proceedings, the

President of the court may, upon being satisfied upon oath
or by the retum of the person by whom the subpoena was

served, that such person has been duly subpoenaed and that |

his reasonable expenses have been paid or offered to him,

impose upon the said person a fine not exceeding fifty rand or

in default of payment imprisonment for a period not exceeding

(3) If any person so subpoenaed fails to appear or unless duly
excused to remain in attendance throughout the proceedings,
the President of the court may also, upon being satisfied as
aforesaid and in case no lawful excuse for such failure seems
to him to exist, issue a warrant for the apprehension of that
person in order that he may be brought up to give evidence
or to produce any book, record, document or thing according
to the subpoena, and on failure so to give evidence or produce
that book, record, document or thing, to be dealt with in
the manner prescribed in sub-section (2). |

(4) The President of the court may, on cause shown, remit
the whole or any part of any fine or imprisonment which he
may have imposed under this section.

(5) The President of the court may order the costs of any
postponement or adjournment occasioned by the default of a
witness, Or any portion of those costs, to be paid out of any :
fine imposed cade this section. |

(6) A penalty imposed under sub-section (2) or (3) shall be |
enforced mutatis mutandis as if it were a penalty imposed by a
magistrate’s court in circumstances such as are described in
the relevant sub-section, and the provisions of any law which
are applicable in respect of such a penalty imposed by a magis-
trate’s court shall mutatis mutandis apply in respect of a penalty
imposed under cither of the said sub-sections.

85. (1) If during the sitting of a special court, any person Contempt of
wilfully insults a member of the court or any officer of the #Pecll court.
court attending at the sitting, or wilfully interrupts the pro-
ceedings of the court or otherwise misbehaves himsclf in the
place where the court is held, the President of the court may
make an order committing that person to imprisonment for
any period not exceeding three months or order that ba
to pay a fine not exceeding one hundred rand or in default
of payment thereof to be imprisoned for such a period.

(2) An order made under sub-section (1) shall be executed
mutatis mutandis as if it were an order made by a magistrate’s
court under circumstances such as are described in that sub-
section, and the provisions of any law which are applicable
in respect of such an order made by a magistrate’s court shall
mutatis mutandis apply in respect of an order made under the
said sub-section.

86, (1) There shall be no right of appeal against any decision Appeal in
of the special court on a question of fact, but upon the deter- questions of law
mination of an appeal by the special court, the appellant or
the Commissioner, if dissatisfied with that determination as
bemg erroncous in law, may by notice in writing addressed
to the registrar of the court require the special court to state
a case setting forth the facts, the contentions of the parties
and the determination of the court, for an appeal—

(a) to the provincial or local division of the Supreme
Court of South Africa having jurisdiction in the area
| in which the sitting of the special court was held; or
(2) if the appellant and the Commissioner lodge their
written consent thereto with the registrar of the special
court, to the Appellate Division of the Supreme
Court of South Africa, without any intermediate :
appeal to such provincial or local division,
and the provincial or local division or the Appellate Division, |
as the case may be, may epee the hearing of the appeal decide |
any question of law which was or could have been properly
raised before the special court, and reverse, affirm or amend the
determination of the special court or remit the matter to the
special court with such instructions as the said division may
think fit to give, or make such other order as it may deem fit.

(2) Any such notice shall be lodged with the registrar of
the special court within thirty days of the date of the notice
issued by him notifying the decision of the special court.

(3) The court by which a case shall be stated for an appeal
in terms of sub-section (1) shall consist of the persons who

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 297TH MAY, 1962 137
were the members of the court which made the determination
appealed against, notwithstanding that any person who in |
terms of this sub-section 1s required to act as the President or
a member of such firstmentioned court is no longer a judge
acting judge of the Provincial Division of the Supreme
Court concerned or, as the case may be, that his appointment
as a member of the special court has since the date of the said
determination expired: Provided that if any person who was a
member of the court has died or is for any other reason unable
so to act—
(a) his place may be taken, in the case of the President of
the court, by any judge or acting judge of the Pro-
vincial Division of the Supreme Court concerned who
may be nominated and seconded for that purpose in
accordance with the provisions of sub-section (6)
of section eigfty-ffree, and, in the case of any other -
member of the court, by an accountant, a person
representative of the commercial community or a
qualified mining engineer, as the case may be, ap-
pointed as a member of the special court in terms of |
paragraph (a) of sub-section (5) of the said section:
or
(6) the said court may, if the appellant and the Commis-
sioner $0 agree, consist of one or more of the persons .
who were members of the court which made the deter-
mination appealed against and who are able to act as

(4) Where for the purposes of sub-section (3) any judge or
ae judge has been nominated to take the place of the
President of the court which made the determination appealed
against and such judge or acting judge is of the opinion that
it 1s impossible for the court as constituted in terms of para-
graph cay of the proviso to sub-section (3) to state a case for
an appeal on the material before it, he may afford the appellant
and the Commissioner an opportunity of adducing evidence
before that court in regard to such point or points as he deems
necessary for the purpose of enabling the court to state a case
as required, or he may set aside the determination appealed
against and order that the appeal in respect of which the said
determination was made, be heard and determined de nova,

(5) An appeal shall lie to the Appellate Division of the
Supreme Court of South Africa from a decision of a provincial
or local division under this section.

$7. A member of any special court or a judge of any division Members of courts
of the Supreme Court of South Africa shall not solely on account Pot disqualified
of his liability to be assessed under this Act be deemed to be “"0™ *#udicating.
interested in any matter upon which he may be called upon to
adjudicate thereunder.

88. The obligation to pay and the right to receive and Payment of tax
recover any tax chargeable under this Act shall not, unless the appeal.
Commussioner so directs, be suspended by any appeal or pending
the decision of a court of law under section efe/ity-six, but if
any assessment is altered on appeal or in conformity with any
such decision a due adjustment shall be made, amounts paid
in being refunded with interest from the date of receipt
and amounts short-paid being recoverable with interest from
the due date.

PART IF.
Payment and Recovery of Tax.

£9. (1) Any tax chargeable under this Act shall be paid on Appointment of
such days and at such places as may be notified by the Com- or for payment of
missioner or as may be specified in this Act, and may be paid ~
In one sum Or in instalments of equal or varying amounts as
may be determined by the Commissioner having regard to the
circumstances of the case,

(2) Any taxpayer who fails to pay his tax on or before the
day on which it is payable (in this Act called the due date)
shall pay, on any amount paid after the due date in respect of
such tax, interest at the rate of one and a quarter cents on
each completed two rand of such amount for every completed
month contained in the period reckoned from the due date to
the date on which the said amount is paid: Provided that interest

_ shall not be collected on any amount of tax which is paid
within such period as may be notified by the Commissioner

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY, 1962 | 159
in the notice of assessment or within any extension of such
said period which the Commissioner may grant having regard
to the circumstances of the case.

90. Subject to the provisions of this Act, normal tax leviable ee by whom
thereunder shall be payable— eavahie

(a) by any representative taxpayer, In respect of any income
received or controlled by him in such representative
capacity;

(6) by any spouse upon whom any separate assessment
notice has been served, where separate assessments
have been made upon two spouses under the provisions
of sub-section (6) of section seventy-seven;

(c) in respect of any other income and in all other cases,
by the person by whom the income 15 received or to
whom or in whose favour it accrues or who is legally
entitled to the receipt thereof:

Provided that any person may recover so much of the taxation
paid by him alee this Act as is due to the inclusion in his
income of any income deemed to have been received by him
or to be his income, as the case may be, in terms of sub-section
©). (4), (5) or (6) of section seven, from the person entitled,

nether on his own behalf or in a representative capacity, to
the receipt of the income so included.

91. (1) (a) Any tax shall, when it becomes due or is payable, Recovery of tax.

be deemed to be a debt due to the Government and
shall be payable to the Commissioner in the manner
and at the place prescribed.

(6) If any person fails to pay any tax when it becomes due
or is payable by him, the Commissioner may file
with the clerk or of any competent court a
statement certified by him as correct and setting forth
the amount of the tax so due or payable by that
person, and such statement shall thereupon have all
the effects of, and any proceedings may be taken
thereon as if it were, a civil judgment lawfully given
in that court in favour of the Commissioner for a
liquid debt of the amount specified in the statement.

(c) The Commissioner may institute proceedings for the
sequestration of the estate of any taxpayer shall
for the og of such proceedings be deemed to
be the creditor in respect of any tax due by such
taxpayer.

(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Magistrates’
Courts Act, 1944 (Act No. 32 of 1944), a statement for any
amount whatsoever may be filed in terms of paragraph (5)
of sub-section (1) with the clerk of the court of the magistrate
having jurisdiction in respect of the person by whom such
amount is payable in accordance with the provisions of this Act.

(3) Any tax due and payable by any person married without
community of property and not separated from his wife under
a judicial order or written agreement may be recovered from
the assets of his wife in so far as the tax 15 payable in respect of
the income of his wife deemed to be his ah ns the provisions of
sub-section (2) of section seven,

(4) So much of any tax payable by any person under this
Act as is due to the inclusion in his income of any income
deemed to have been received by him or to be his income, as
the case may be, in terms of sabsasction (3), (4), (5) or (6) of

. section seven, may be recovered from the assets by which the
Income so included was produced.

9?. It shall not be competent for any person in any pro- Correctness of
ceedings in connection with any statement filed in terms of #55essmen' Cannot
paragraph (4) of sub-section (1) of section ninety-one to question © °°"
the correctness of any assessment on which such statement 1s
based, notwithstanding that objection and appeal may have
been lodged thereto.

93. (1) If the Commissioner has, in accordance with any Collection of
arrangements made with the government of any other country eons made
or territory by an agreement entered into under section one poder section 108,
fundred and eight or the corresponding provisions of
previous Income Tax Act with a view to rendering reciprocal
assistance in the collection of taxes, received a request for the |

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 297H MAY’, 1962 161
collection from any person in the Republic of an amount
alleged to be due by him under the income tax laws of such
other country or territory, the Commissioner may, by notice
in writing, call upon such — to state, within a period
specified in the notice, whether or not he admits liability for
the said amount or for any lesser amount. |

(2) The Commissioner may—

(a) if such person so admits liability; or
(6) if such person fails to comply with the notice or in
answer to the notice denies his liability for the said
amount or for any part thereof, and the President of
the special court has certified that he has afforded the
person concerned an Ly Biman of presenting his
case, and that on the information submitted to him
by the Commissioner and by such person (if any), !
the amount specified in the certificate appears to b
payable by such person in terms of a final determination
under the income tax laws of such other country or
territory,
by notice in writing require such person to pay the amount
for which he has admitted liability or the amount so specified,
as the case may be, ona date, at a place and to a person specified
in the notice, for transmission to the proper authority in such
other country or territory.

(3) If such person fails to comply with the notice under sub-
seclion (2) the amount in question may, subject, in the case of
any amount to which any such certificate relates, to the outcome
of any proceedings which such person may institute in such
other country or territory for determining his liability for
the said amount, be recovered for transmussion to the said
aaonty as if it were a tax payable by such person under this

ct.

(4) No steps taken In any other country or territory under
any arrangements referred to in sub-section (1), for the collection
of an amount alleged to be due by any person under the income
tax laws of the Republic, and no judgment piven against any
such person in pursuance of such arrangements in such other
country or territory for any such amount, shall affect his right
to have his liability for any such amount determined in the
Republic in accordance with the provisions of the relevant law.

94, The production of any document under the hand of the Evidence as to
Commissioner purporting to be a copy of or an extract from any 25esment,
notice of assessment shall be conclusive evidence of the making
of such assessment and, except in the case of proceedings on
appeal against the assessment, shall be conclusive evidence
that the amount and all the particulars of such assessment
appearing in such document are correct.

PART F.
Representative Taxpayers.

95. (1) Every representative taxpayer shall as regards the Liability of
income to which he is entitled in his representative capacity, TPresentative
or of which in such capacity he has the management, receipt, “*?"*"
disposal, remittance, payment or control, be subject in all
respects to the same duties, responsibilities and liabilities as
if the income were income received by or accruing to or in
favour of him beneficially and shall be liable to assessment in
his own name in respect of that income, but any such assessment
shall be deemed to be made upon him in his representative
capacity only,

(2) Any abatement, deduction, exemption or right to set off
a loss which could be claimed by the person represented
him shall be allowed in the assessment made upon the represen-
tative taxpayer in his capacity as such.

(3) Any tax payable in respect of any such assessment shall,
save in the case of an assessment upon the public officer of a
company, be recoverable from the representative taxpayer,
but to the extent only of any assets belonging to the person
whom he represents which may be in his possession or under his
management, disposal or control.

i ee eee

(4) Any tax payable in respect of any assessment made upon
a public officer of a company in his capacity as such shall
recoverable from the company of which he is the public officer.

96. Every representative taxpayer who, as such, pays any Right of —
tax shall be entitled to recover the amount so paid from the representative
person on whose behalf itis paid, or to retain out of any moneys jasPS7%5 1°
that may be in his possession or may come to him in his repre-
sentative capacity, an amount equal to the amount so paid.

97, Every representative taxpayer shall be personally liable Personal liability
for any tax payable by him in his representative capacity, if, Of representative
while it remains is tax Dever.

(a) he alienates, charges or disposes of the income in
respect of which the tax is chargeable; or
(6) he disposes of or parts with any fund or money, which
is in his possession or comes to him after the tax is
payable, if the tax could legally have been paid from
or out of such fund or moncy.
Bsc sl Be ee a rons Bee a company is peer!
nt from the Republic, such company shall for the purposes 7; = :
of this Act be decmed & be the agent for such shareholder °° Stareholder
or member, and shall as regards such shareholder or member
or in his favour as a shareholder or member, have and exercise
all the powers, duties and responsibilities of an agent for a
taxpayer absent from the Republic.

99, The Commissioner may, if he thinks necessary, declare Powerto
any person to be the oat of any other person, the person 2PPoint agent.
s0 declared an agent sh I Wis tina aavait for the wurciea of this
Act and may be required to make payment of any tax due
from any moneys, including pensions, salary, wages or any
other remuneration, which may be held by him for or due by
him to the person whose agent he has been declared to be.

100. The Commissioner shall have the same remedies against Remedies of
all property of any kind vested in or under the control or Sate gc
management of any agent or trustee as he would have against te =
the property of any person liable to pay any tax and in as full
and ample a manner.

101. (1) Every company carrying on business or having an Public officers of
in the Republic shall at all times be represented by an “O™panies.
individual residing therein.

(2) Such individual shall be a person approved by the Com-
missioner and shall be appointed by the company or by an
agent or attorney who has authority to appoint such a repre- *
sentative for the purposes of Act: Provided that in the
event of any company being placed in voluntary or compulsory
liquidation the liquidator or liquidators duly appointed shall
be required to exercise in respect of that company all
functions and assume all the responsibilities of a public officer
under this Act during the continuance of the liquidation.

(3) The representative shall be called the public officer of
the company and shall be appointed within one month after
the company Degas to carry on business or acquires an office
in the Republic,

(4) In default of any such appointment the public officer
of any company shall be such managing director, director,
secretary or other officer of the company, as the Commissioner
may designate for that purpose.

‘S) Every com shall also within the period prescribed
Me hid Fi (3) appoint a place within the Republic ap-
proved by the Commussioner at which any notices or other |
documents under this Act affecting the company may be served
or delivered or to which any such notices or documents may be
sent. |

(6) No appointment shall be deemed to have been made
under sub-section (3) or (5), until notice thereof specifying the
name of the public officer and an address for service or delivery
of notices and documents has been given to the Commissioner. :

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29Ta MAY, 1962 165

(7) Every company shall keep the office of public officer
constantly filled and shall at all times maintain a place for the
service or delivery of notices in accordance with vubasatiots (5),
and every change of public officer or of the place for the service
or delivery of notices shall be notified to the Commissioner
within fourteen days of such change taking effect.

(8) er sige i which makes default in appointing a
public officer or appointing a place for service or delivery of
notices In accordance with this Act, or in keeping the office of
public officer constantly filled, or in maintaining a place for
the service or delivery of notices, or which fails to notify to the
Commissioner any change of public officer or of the place for
the service or delivery of notices, and every person who acts
within the Republic as agent or manager or representative of
such company, shall incur a penalty not exceeding two rand
for every day during which the default continues, and any
such penalty shall be recoverable by the Commissioner by
action In any competent court.

(9) Every notice, process or proceeding which under this
Act may be given to, served upon or taken against any “ea |
may be given to, served upon or taken against its public officer,
or if at any time there 1s no public officer, any officer or person
acting or appearing to act in the management of the business
or affairs of such company or as agent for such company.

(10) Every public officer shall be answerable for the doing
of all such acts, matters or things as are required to be done
under this Act by a taxpayer and in case of default shall be
liable to the penalties provided in respect of defaults by a tax-

(11) Everything done by any public officer which he is
required to do in his representative capacity shall be deemed
to have been done by the company which he represents.

(12) The absence or non-appointment of a public officer
shall not exonerate any company from the necessity of complying
with the provisions of this Act, but the company shall in all
respects be subject to and liable to comply with the provisions
of the Act as if there were no requirement to appoint such officer,

(13) Any public officer appointed or deemed to have been
appointed under the provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1941, | :
and holding office at the commencement of this Act shall,
provided no objection to his continuance in office is raised by
the Commissioner, be deemed to be a public officer appointed :
under this Act.

PART FIT. |

102. (1) [fitis proved to the satisfaction of the Commissioner Refunds.
that any amount pas by a taxpayer was in excess of the amount
properly chargeable under this Act, or any previous Income
Tax Act, the Commissioner may authorize a refund to such
taxpayer of any tax overpaid: Provided that no amount paid in
respect of an assessment made in accordance with the practice
generally prevailing at the time when that assessment was made
and accepted by the taxpayer shall be deemed to have been |
otherwise than properly so chargeable.

(2) The Commissioner shall not authorize any refund under
this section unless the claim therefor is made within three
after the date when the assessment was made.

103. (1) Where any transaction, —* or scheme Transactions,
(whether entered into or carried out before or after the com- operations Or
mencement of this Act, and including a transaction, operation S“hemes of
or scheme involving the alienation of property) has been entered | volding or
into or carried out which has the effect of avoiding or post- postponing liability
poning liability for any tax, duty or levy on income (including for or reducing —
any such tax, duty or levy imposed by a previous Act), or of sing bn —
reducing the amount thereof, and which in the opinion of the a
Commissioner, having regard to the circumstances under which
the transaction, operation or scheme was entered into or
carried out—

(i) was entered into or carried out by means or in a manner
which would not normally be employed in the entering
into or carrying out of a transaction, operation or
scheme of the nature of the transaction, operation or
scheme In question; or
(ii) has created rights or obligations which would
normally be created between persons dealing at arm's
length under a transaction, operation or scheme of
the nature of the transaction, operation or scheme in
question,
and the Commussioner is of the opinion that the avoidance or
the postponement of such liability, or the reduction of the
amount of such liability was the sole or one of the main purposes
of the transaction, operation or scheme, the Commissioner
shall determine the liability for any tax, duty or levy on income
and the amount thereof as if the transaction, operation or
scheme had not been entered into or carried out or in such
manner as in the circumstances of the case he deems appropriate
for the prevention or diminution of such avoidance, postpone-
ment or reduction.
(2) Whenever the Commissioner is satisfied that any agree-
ment or any change in the shareholding in any company, as
a direct or indirect result of which income has been received
by or has accrued to that company during any year of assess-
ment, has at any time before or after the commencement of the
Income Tax Act, 1946, been entered into or effected by any
perce jessy A mainly for the purpose of utilizing any assessed |
oss or any balance of loss incurred by the company,
pocee to ee liability on on part of that ——, or any
other person for the payment of any tax, duty or levy on income,
or to cedars the bait thereof, che iamrebens took assessed.
loss or balance of assessed loss against any such income shall be ae
(3) For the purposes of sub-section (1) any transaction,
operation or scheme (whether entered into or carried out
before or after the commencement of this Act) whereby any
person ena than a a is ordinarily resident - a
carrying on business in the Republic, or any company registere - -
or cunrying on business in the Reppblic ot dispoced of shares |
held by such person or such company in any company registered
or incorporated in the Republic to any person (other than a
company) not ordinarily resident nor carrying on business in
the Republic or to any company registered outside the Republic,
shall, unless it is proved to the satisfaction of the Commissioner
that the pom are independent pecsorss dealing at arm’s length
with each other, be deemed to be a transaction, operation or
scheme entered into or carried out by means or in 4 manner not
normally employed in the entering into or carrying out of such
a transaction, operation or scheme of the nature of the trans-
action, operation or scheme in question,
(4) Any decision of the Commissioner under sub-section (1), |
(2) or (3) shall be subject to objection and appeal, and when-
ever in proceedings relating thereto it is proved that the trans-
action, operation, scheme, agreement or change in share-
holding in question would result in the avoidance or the post- |
ponement of liability for payment of any tax, ~~ or levy on
income or in the reduction of the amount thereof, it shall be
presumed, until the contrary is proved—
(a) in the case of any such transaction, operation or scheme,
that its sole or of its main purposes was the
avoidance or the postponement of such liability or the
reduction of the amount of such liability; or
(6) in the case of any such agreement or change in share-
holding, that it has been entered into or effected
solely or mainly for the purpose of utilizing the assessed
loss or balance of assessed loss in question in order
to avoid or postpone such liability or to reduce the
amount thereol.
104. (1) Any person who with intent to evade or to assist Offences and
any other person to evade assessment or taxation— penalties.
(2) makes or causes or allows to be made any false state- ey
| ment or entry in any return rendered in terms of this

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY, 1962 169
Act, or signs any statement or return so rendered
without reasonable grounds for believing the same
to be true: or
(5) gives any false answer, whether verbally or in writing,
to any request for information made under this Act
by the Commissioner or any person duly authorized ,
= by him or any officer referred to in section free; or
(c) prepares or maintains or authorizes the preparation
et cuninbeciiecs of any false books Panett a ile
records or falsifies or authorizes the falsification of
any books of account or other records; or
(a) makes use of any fraud, art or contrivance whatsoever,
or authorizes the use of any such fraud, art or con-
trivance, .
shall be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding one thousand rand or to imprisonment for a
period not exceeding two years or to both such fine and such
imprisonment.

(2) Whenever in amy proceedings under this section it is
proved that any false statement or entry is made in any return
rendered under this Act by or on behalf of any taxpayer or
in any books of account or other records of any taxpayer, that
taxpayer shall be presumed, until the contrary is proved,
to have made that false statement or entry or to have caused
that false statement or entry to be made or to have allowed
it to be made with intent to evade assessment or taxation, and
any other person who made any such false statement or entry |
shall be presumed, until the contrary is proved, to have made
such false statement or entry with intent to assist the taxpayer
to evade assessment or taxation,

105. Any person charged with an offence under this Act may, Jurisdiction
sntelthaandlie anything to the contrary contained in any of courts.
law, be tried in respect of that offence by any court having
jurisdiction within any area in which he resides or carries on
business.

106. (1) Any form, notice, demand or other document isswed Authentication
or given by or on behalf of the Commissioner or any other mt service of
officer under this Act shall be sufficiently authenticated if ~~ —
the name of the Commissioner or officer by whom the same is
issued or given is stamped or printed thereon.

(2) Any notice required or authorized under this Act to be
served upon any person shall be effectually served—

(a) if delivered to him; or
(6) if left with some adult person apparently residing
at or occupying or employed at his fast known abode
or office or place of business in the Republic; or
(c) if despatched by registered post in an envelope
" which i soritteas his aati and | his last known ns 7 Bia
which may be any such place or office as is referred
to in paragraph @ or his last known post office box
number or that of his employer; and
(d) in the case of a company—
(i) if delivered to the public officer of the company; or
(ii) if left with some adult person apparently residing
at or occupying or employed at the place appoin-
by the company under sub-section (5) of sec-
tion one /undred and one, or where no such place
has been appointed by the company, if left with
some adult person apparently residing at or oc-
cupying or employed at the last known office or
place of business of the company in the Repub-
lic; or
(ii) if er mes by registered post in an envelope
on which 1s written the name of the company
or its public officer and its or his last known
address, which may be any such office or place
as is referred to in sub-paragraph (ul) or its or
his last known post office box number or that of
his employer.
107. (1) The State President may make regulations— Regulations,

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29na MAY, 1962 17!

(a) prescribing the duties of all persons engaged oremployed
in the administration of this Act;

(6) defining the limits of areas within which such persons
are to act;

(c) prescribing the nature of the accounts to be rendered
by any oy bed in support of gers Pot igprser rendered
under this Act and the manner in which such accounts
shall be authenticated:

(d) prescribing the method of valuation of annuities or
of fiduciary, usufructuary or other limited interests
in property referred to in section sixty-rwo;

(2) prescribing the procedure to be observed in the conduct
and hearing of objections and appeals before the
special courts,

and generally for giving effect to the objects and purposes of

(2) The regulations may prescribe penalties for any con-
travention thereof or failure to comply therewith, not exceeding
a fine of fifty rand.

(3) Any regulation made under the Income Tax Act, 1941,
and in force at the date of commencement of this Act, shall be
deemed to have been made under this Act.

108, (1) The State President may enter into an agreement with Prevention of,
the SO ee of any other saetey or territory, whereby Se ee atid
arrangements are made with such government with a view to =
the prevention, mitigation or discontinuance of the levying,
under the laws of the Republic and of such other country or
territory, of income tax in respect of the same Income, or to the
rendering of reciprocal assistance in the administration of
and the collection of taxes under the income tax laws of the
Republic and of such other country or territory.

(2),As soon as may be after the conclusion of any such
agreement the arrangements thereby made shall be notified by
proclamation by the State President in the Gazeffe, whereupon |
until such proclamation is revoked by the State President, |
the arrangements notified therein shall, so far as they relate
to immunity, exemption or relief in respect of income tax in
the Republic, have effect as if enacted in this Act, but only if
and for so long as such arrangements, in so far as they relate
to immunity, exemption or relief in respect of income tax
levied or leviable in such other country or territory, have the
effect of law in such country or territory.

(3) The State President may at any time revoke any such
proclamation by proclamation in the Gazeffe, and the arrange-
ments notified in such earlier proclamation shall cease to have
effect a date fixed in such latter proclamation, but the |
revocation of any proclamation shall not affect the validity
of anything previously done thereunder, a

(4) As soon as may be after the publication in the Gazette
of any proclamation under this section copies thereof shall be
laid upon the Table in the Senate and in the House of Assembly.

(5) The duty imposed by any law to preserve secrecy with
regard to income tax shall not prevent the disclosure to any
authorized officer of the country or territory mentioned in any
proclamation issued in terms of sub-section (2), of the facts,
knowledge of which is necessary to enable it to be determined
whether immunity, exemption or relief ought to be given or
which it is necessary to disclose in order to render or receive
assistance in accordance with the arrangements notified in such
proclamation.

109. (1) The Minister of Finance may enter into an agreement Prevention of
dads the Administratoe of the territory of South-West Africa $7 relist from
whereby arrangements are made with a view to the prevention, the nepatee and
mitigation or discontinuance of the levying, under the laws of South-West Africa.
the Republic and of the said territory, of income tax in respect
of the same income, or to the rendering of reciprocal assistance
the administration of and the collection of taxes under the

‘income tax laws of the Republic and of the said territory.

(2) The provisions of sub-sections (2) to (7), inclusive, of
section one hundred and eight shall mutatis mutandis ste
in respect of an igh eg referred toin sub-section (1) of
this section: Provided that in the application of the pro-

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY, 1962 173
visions any reference therein to the State President or to a
proclamation by the State President, shall be construed as a
reference to the Minister of Finance and to a notice by the said
Minister, respectively,

110. (1) For the purposes of any lease of the right to mine Determination of
for gold in which provision is made for the set-off of the whole me per ple ol
or a portion of the amount payable by the lessee by reason of for purposes of
any increase in the scale of taxation leviable upon incomes certain leases of
derived from mining for gold against the annual consideration the right to
payable by the lessee in respect of such lease, and which has as mine for gold.
the basis for determining whether or not such an increase has
been effected the taxation which was leviable at the rates
prescribed by either—

(a) the Income Tax Act, 1933 (Act No. 31 of 1935),
and the Gold Mines Excess Profits Duty Act, 1933
_ (Act No. 33 of 1933); or |
(6) the Gold Mines Excess Profits Duty Act, 1933 (Act
No 33 of 1933), as amended by the Gold Mines Excess
Profits Duty (Amendment) Act, 1934 (Act No. 43 of
1934), and the Income Tax Act, 1934 (Act No. 44 of
1934),
the amount to be so set off in respect of any year shall be the
amount by which the amount of normal ox lavlabla for that
year upon the income derived from mining for gold, including
excess por peng: of capital st eral together with an
amount equal to the amount of gold profits surtax which would
have been payable for that year by the lessee concemed, if the
provisions of section fwe of the Gold Mines Excess Profits Duty
Amendment Act, 1935 (Act No. 51 of 1935), had still been in
force and had applied In respect of that year, exceeds the
amount of normal tax which would have been payable for such
year on the same income, if the provisions of section one of
the Income Tax Act, 1936 (Act No. 34 of 1936), had still been
in force and had applied in respect of that year.

111. (1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), the Repeal of laws.
laws specified in the Third Schedule are hereby repealed to
the extent set out in the third column of that Schedule: Pro-
vided that any tax or other amount which but for such repeal
would have been capable of being levied, assessed or recovered
and which has not been levied, assessed or recovered at the com-
mencement of this Act, may be levied, assessed or recovered as
if such repeal had not been effected. |

(2) Any notice or proclamation issued or regulation made or
anything done under any provision of a law repealed by sub-

' section (1) shall be deemed to have been issued, made or done
under the corresponding provision of this Act.

112, This Act shall be called the Income Tax Act, 1962, Short title and
and shall come into operation on the first day of July, 1962, °ommencement.

First Schedule.
COMPUTATION OF TAXABLE INCOME DERIVED FROM PASTORAL,
AGRICULTURAL OR OTHER FARMING OPERATIONS.
(Section twenty-six of this Act.)

1. In this Schedule a reference to the end of a year of assessment }
includes, where the period assessed Is Jess than twelve months, a reference
to the end of that period,

2. Every farmer shall include in his return rendered for income tax
murposes the value of all livestock or produce held and disposed of
by bim at the beginning and the end of cach year of assessment.

3. (1) Subject to the provisions of sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), the ,
value of livestock (reduced as provided in paragraph 10) or produce
held and not disposed of at the end of the year of assessment shall be
included in income for such year of assessment, and there shall be allowed
as. a deduction from such income the value of livestock or produce, as
determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4, held and
not eee of at the ee of the year of assessment. a

(2) For the purposes o sub-paragraph (1), the value of livestock
(reduced as provided paragraph 10) or produce held and not disposed |
of at the end of any year of assessment by any person who discontinued
Pakgpein — during such year, shall be included in his income

, GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY, 1962 175
a
(3) Any livestock which is the subject of any “sheep lease” or similar
agreement concerning livestock, shall be deemed to be beld and not
disposed of by the prantar of such lease or agreement.
4. (0) values of livestock and produce held and not disposed of
at the beginning of any year of assessment shall be deemed to aa
(a) in the case of a farmer who was carrying on farming operations
on the last day of the a sia immediately preceding the year of
assessment, the sum
(i) the values of livestock (reduced as provided in paragraph
10 or the corresponding proreion of any previous Income
Tax Act) and pane held and not disposed of by him
at the end of the year immediately preceding the year
assessment; and :
(ii) such value as the Commissioner may allow in respect of
livestock or produce acquired by such farmer during the
current year of assessment otherwise than by purchase or
natural increase or in the ordinary course of farming
operations; or
(6) in the case of any person commencing oF ens farming
operations during the year of assessment, the sum ol—
(i) the value of livestock or held and not disposed
of by him at the end of the day immediately oper the
date of such commencement or recommencement; a
livestock or produce (other than livestock or produce to
which sub-item (i) refers) acquired by such person during
the year of assessment otherwise than by purchase or
natural increase or in the ordinary course of farming
5. The value to be placed upon livestock (other than livestock acquired
by purchase for stud purposes) for the purpos this Schedule shall,
subject to the provisions of sub-item (i) of item (a) and sub-item (ii
of item (6), respectively, of sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph 4, bo—
(a) in the case of a farmer other than a company or the estate of a
deceased person, the standard value applicable to the livestock:
Provided that the value to be placed on livestock held and not
disposed of by any such farmer at the end of the of
assessment terminating at the death or insolvency of the said |
farmer shall be the price which in the opinion of the Commis-
sioner is the current markel price of the livestock;
(6) in the case of livestock acquired by a company or the estate of
a deceased person—
(i) if acquired by purchase, elther the purchase price paid or
the price which in the opinion of the Cariinieloner is
the current market price of the livestock; or ,
the opinion of the Commissioner is the current market
price of the livestock.
6 The standard value applicable to any class of livestock shall be—
(a) in the case of any farmer who on or after the first day of July, ,
1955, and before the first day of July, 1962, rendered returns
in respect of farming operations, the standard value which in |
relation to such farmer a to that class of livestock in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph [3 of the Third
Schedule to the Income Tax Act, 1941:
(6) in the case of any other farmer or any farmer who on or after |
the first uy of July, 1962, includes that class of livestock in |
his return for the first time, either—
() such standard value as may be fixed by regulation made
or deemed to have been made under this Act: or
(ii) such other standard value as the farmer may adopt for
that class of livestock when rendering his first return of
income on or ont the “ao in respect of fereiing |
operations, or when so including in any return sucl , :
class of livestock for the first time: Provided that no
standard value adopted under this sub-item shall be more
than twenty per cent higher or lower than the standard |
value fixed under sub-item (i) in respect of livestock of the
class in question: Provided further that any farmer who |
classifies any kind of his livestock on a basis other than
that applied for the purpose of fixing a standard value
under sub-itern (i), —_ adopt in respect of any class into
which be : so eee rt peers e such a Baap sagt te
as May b¢ approved By | OMMISsIOner W ue regar
to the values so fixed.
7. The exercise of an option under sub-item (ii) of item (6) of paragraph
6 shall be binding upon the farmer in respect of all subsequent returns
for income tax and no standard value fixed by any eine
whether under this Act or any previous Income Tax Act may be varied
by him in respect eg subsequent year of assessment, save with the
consent and approval of the Commissioner and upon such terms as the
8. The value to be placed He livestock acquired by purchase for
stud purposes shall be the purchase price paid for that livestock.
9. The value to be placed upon produce included in any return shall
be such fair and reasonable value as the Commissioner may fiz.
10. The value of livestock held at the end of the of assessment
by any farmer other than a company shall be reduced by sch an amount ,
as in the opinion of the Commissioner is falr and reasonable having ,

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY, 1962 177. :
regard to the risk of mortality of such livestock: Provided that no reduc-
tion under this paragraph shall be made from the value of livestock held
and not disposed of at the end of the period of assessment terminating
at the death or insolvency of such farmer, 2

J1. If during any year of assessment livestock or produce has been
donated by any farmer or has, for purposes other than that of the pro-
duction to him of income from sources within the Republic, been removed
by him from the Republic, there shall be included in the income of such
farmer for that year of assessment an amount equal to the which |
in the opinion of the Commissioner is the current market price of such

12. (1) Subject to the provisions of sub-paragra Lar eiblr ail Serato
there shall be allowable as deductions in the determination of the taxable
income derived by any farmer the mune incurred by him during
the year of assessment in respect of—

(a) the eradication of noxious plants;

(6) the prevention of soil erosion; |

(c) dipping tanks;

(a) dams, irrigation schemes, and pumping plants; .

G9 the erection of buildings used in connection with farming opera-
tions, other than those used for the domestic purposes of
persons who are not employees of such farmer;

tg) the establishment of orchards and vineyards;

(h) the of roads and bridges wsed in connection with
farming Operations: 7

() the mi of electric power from the main transmission lines |
to the farm apparatus.

(2) No deduction under paragraph (¢) or (o) of section efeven of this
Act shall be allowed in respect of any Po Be articles or pent for
which a deduction under euS-paragrapn (1) of this paragrap or the
corresponding provisions of a previous Income Tax Act has been allowed,
and no deduction under paragraph {) of the said section shall be allowed
in respect wioh ti) of this be ono Rega — which a pape under
sub-paragraph (1 15 Paragraph or such corresponding provisions
(3) a raW sr em ees as oh Cl) in to any farmer under

lems (c) to (i), inclusive, of sub-paragraph (1) in any year of assessment

shall mot excced the taxable income (as saleviahed before allowing any
deductions under the said items) derived by him from farming operations
during that year of assessment: Provided that the ayia which the
total expenditure incurred by any farmer during any year of assessment
in respect of the matters referred to in the said items exceeds the taxable
income eeleus ated as aforesaid) derived by him from don ee operations
during that year of assessment shall be carried forward and be deemed
for the purposes of sub-paragraph (1) to be expenditure which has been
incurred by him during the next succeeding year of assessment for
the BispOres of this proviso any amount which has been carried for-
ward from the year of assessment ended the thirtieth day of June, 1961,
in terms of the proviso to sub-paragraph (3) of Ratsaree 32 of the
Third Schedule to the Income Tax Act, 1941, shall be deemed to be an
amount Which has been so carried forward in terms of this proviso,

(4) () For the purposes of this paragraph “employees”, in relation
to any farmer, means persons employed by that farmer in
connection with his farming operations, but does not include
his relatives or, where the farmer is S Soneny the share-
(or the relatives of shareholders) in that company or
in any company which is associated with it by virtue of
holding.

4) For the purposes of item (a) “shareholders” in relation to any
Sige rg does not include persons who hold all their shares
in that Say a because they are et a By that
ra sa and who will, in terms of the articles of association
of that company, not be entitled to hold those shares alter
they cease to be so employed. |

(5) The ngeropate of all the deductions allowed under item (f) of
sub-paragraph (1) or the corresponding provisions of any previous
Income Tax Act to farmer in respect of the erection of any
used for the domestic purposes of any one of his employees shall not
exceed the sum of four thousand rand.

(6) If in any year of assessment any building in relation to which a
deduction has been allowed to any farmer under tem (fof sub-paragraph
a) of this paragraph or ts (9 sub-paragraph (1) of paragraph 17

the Third Schedule to the Income Tax Act, 1941, whether in the
current or in any snphargae a of assessment, is used for the domestic
purposes of any person other than an employee of that farmer, there
shall be included in the income of that farmer for the current Her of
assessment the amount of such deduction less one-tenth of the said
amount in respect of cach completed period of one year, but not ex-
ceeding ten years, during which such building was used by the said farmer |
in connection with his farming operations other than for the domestic
purposes of persons who are not his employees.

13. (1) If it is proved to the satisfaction of the Commissioner—

(a) that any farmer has in any year of assessment sold livestock on
account of cp oot or stock disease; and —

(6) that such farmer has within four years after the close of the said
year 2s assessment purchased livestock to replace the livestock
so sold, 3 |

_ the cost of the livestock so purchased shall, notwithstanding anything in
this Schedule contained, be allowed, at the option of such farmer, a3 a
deduction in the determination of his taxable income for the said year :
of assessment, provided the claim for such deduction is made wit
five years after the close of the said year of assessment.

(2) The cost of livestock so allowed as a deduction shall not be allowed

as a deduction in the year of assessment in which the purchases are made,
IF

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 2971 MAY, 1962 179

(3) Every farmer who desires to claim a deduction in terms of sub
peragiarh (1), shall with his return of income for the Er of
in Which he sold livestock account of conditions ae ae or stock
disease, notify the Commissioner accordingly and furnish full particulars
in regard to the livestock so sold,

(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in the preceding provisions
of this paragraph, Commissioner shall, until proof hes heen sub-

mitted to him as provided in item (4) of sub-paragraph (1), assess and
recover any tax payable by a farmer in respect of any year of assessment
in which livestock has been sold as aforesaid, a3 if the said sub-paragraph
had not been enacted: Provided that if proof is submitted to the satis-
faction of the Commissioner in terms of sub-paragraph (1), he shall
revise the assessment concerned and refund to the farmer so much
the amount paid by him as exceeds the amount found to be payable
after allowing the deduction referred to in the said sub-paragraph,

14. (1) Any received by or accrued to a farmer in respect
the disposal of any P grag me shall, whether such plantation is disposed
of separately or with the land on which it is growing, be deemed not to
be a receipt or accrual of a capital nature and shall form part of such

(2) Where any plantation is disposed of by a farmer with the land on
which it is ebb, the amount to be incloded in such farmer's gross
income in terms of sut-paragraph (1) shall—

(a) if the amount representing the consideration payable in
of the eee of the plantation is sacend to between the
parties to the transaction, be the amount so agreed to; or

(5) failin : sich agreement, be such portion of the
payable in sag ea of the disposal of the land and the plantation
as in the opinion of the Commissioner represents the
tion payable for the plantation,

15. (1) In the determination of the taxable income of any farmer there
shall be allowed as a deduction—

(a) any expenditure incurred by such farmer during the year of
assessment in respect of the establishment and maintenance
of plantations:

(5) expenditure incurred by such farmer prior to the first day
of July, 1948, in respect of the establishment and maintenance
of any plantation or the cost of acquisition of any plantation
ane wnat age farmer whether before or alter the first day

(i) any deductions allowed under this item in respect of any
Plantation shall not in ign of any. year «
exceed the gross income derived by such farmer in that
year from the said plantation;
(ii) the aggregate of the deductions allowed in terms of this
item or the matics ioe provisions of the Income Tax
Act, 1941, or by virtue of any other provision of the last-
mentioned Act or the Income Tax Act, 1925 (Act No. 40
of 1925), in respect of plantations shall not exceed the
amount of such expenditure or such cost of acquisition.

(2) For the purpose of calculating the cost of acquisition of
Plantation the of sub-paragraph 2) of paragraph 14 shall
apply mutatis mutandis in the case of any plantation acquired by any
farmer with the land on which it is growing.

(3) For the purpose only of calculating the rates of normal tax payable
in cig Si of any year of assessment by a farmer whose income for that
year includes income derived from the disposal of plantations or forest
produce, there shall (if the Commissioner is that such disposal
etd le of the normal farming operations of the farmer concerned) .
be deducted from the taxable income of such farmer the oat
which the taxable income derived by him in that year from the disposa
of plantations and forest produce exceeds the annual average taxable
income derived by him from that source over the three years of assess-
ment immediately preceding the said year of assessment: Provided that

(i) the Commissioner's determination as to what portion of a
farmer's taxable income is derived from the disposal of planta-
tions and forest produce shall be final;

(i) in no case shall the rate of tax be less than that applicable to |
the first rand of taxable income, and nothing in this paragraph
contained shall be construed as relieving any farmer from
liability for taxation under this Act upon any portion of his
taxable income.

16. For the purposes of paragraphs 14 and 15—

“plantation” means ig Bm ie ially established tree as ordinarily
understood or any Of gach trees and includes any natural
extension of such trees;

“forest produce” means trees and anything derived from gro :
including timber, wood, bark, leaves, seeds, gum, resin an

17. For the purpose only of calculating the rates of normal tax payable
in epi Bie of any year of assessment by any farmer whose sugar cane
fields have been damaged by fire, (here shall be deducted from the taxable
income of such farmer for such year of assessment so much of that
taxable income as is proved to the satisfaction of the Commissioner to
have been derived from the disposal of sugar cane as a result of fire in
his cané fields and but for such fire would not have been derived by him
arated ea but in no case shall the rate of tax be less than that applicable
to the first rand of taxable income, and nothing herein contained shall
be construed as relieving such farmer from liability for taxation under
this Act upon any portion of his taxable income,

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, MAY, 1962 i181
1k M) There shall in respect of each year of assessment be included
in the income of any company carrying on farming operations so much
of such repens unadjusted balance of livestock values (determined
as provided in sub-paragraph (2)) as does not exceed the value, determined
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3, of livestock disposed
of by it during the year of assessment in question, until the amounts so
included are in the apgrega egate equal to such company's said unadjusted
balance of livestock values.

For the purposes of mul perigee ph (1), any company’s unadjusted
BP od of livestock values shall be determined—

(a) in the case of any company the values of whose livestock and
produce held and not disposed of by it at the oe log and
end of the year of assessment ended the thirtieth day of June,
1954, were not taken into account in the determination of its
taxable income for that year, by deducting from the amount
fin item (6) referred to as the company’s opening value of

vestock) which was taken into account in the determination

of such company’s taxable income for the dead of assesament
ended the thirtieth day of June, 1955, as being the value of
livestock held and not og ag by it at the beginning of
that year of assessment, the sum of—

(i) any expenditure incurred by the company in the purchase
of livestock which was not allowed as a, deduction in
respect of years of assessment preceding that ended th
thirtieth day of Lene 1955, under the provisions of para-

. graph 4 of the Third Schedule to the Income Tax Act,

41:

(i) the value of livestock held and not anne sed of flor
company on the thirtieth day of June, 1913, or on the date
(not later than the thirtieth day of June, 1954) upon which
t Oommen or recommenced farming operations,
whichever date is the later; and

(iii) the aggregate of the amounts included in the income of
such company in terms of item ve of sub-paragraph (1)
of ee cig he ll of the Third Schedule to the Income Tax
Act, I crests! ars of the years of assessment commencing
with that ended the thirtieth day of June, 1955, and ter-
ee with that ended the thirticth day of June, 1961;

(6) in the case of any other company, by deductin F from the com-
pany'’s opening value of etek the _

Third Schedule to the Income Tax om 1941, and taken
into account in the determination of such ps
taxable income for the oon Of assessment ended
thintieth day of June, 1954) of livestock held and not
a eed of by it at the end of the said year of assessment:
an

(ii) the aggregate of the set et included in io income of
such company in terms of sub-paragraph (2) « paragraph :,
11 of the Third Schedule 1 the tocoene ee Act, 1941,
in respect of the years of assessment referred to in sub-item
(iii) of item (a) of this sub-paragraph.

second Schedule.

COMPUTATION OF GRO33 INCOME DERIVED BY WAY OF LumP SUM BENEFITS
FROM Pension, PROVIDENT AND RETIREMENT ANNUITY FUNDS.
(Paragraph (2) of the definition a income™ in section ome of this

1, For the purposes of this Schedule—
(i) “formula A”, in relation to a pension fund or provident fund,
means the formula—
¥ one + * A oal
Y= —X— K 4 & Average Salary
1 50 |
in Which formula “Y™ represents the amount which has to be

peg mined, saneh in tines the S ponured of com Lao years ,

10t exceeding fifty) in the pe employment of the taxpayer
which, in terms u, the wiles of the fund in hago is taken
into account for the parpote of determining the amount of the
benefits payable to him under the fund, or, if the period of
employment is not taken into account for that purpose, in the
period of his membership of the fund during which contribu-
tions thereto were made in respect of his membership, and

“average salary" means the highest annual average salary

(not exceeding ten thousand rand) actually earned by the

prnaridd Se eas ay jog ri in mgt gonidn oe ee
employer by whom he was employed during his membership
of the fund: Provided that—

(a) the peniod of employment or membership to be taken into
account in applying the formula in relation to any such
fund shall be reduced by any period of employment or

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 29TH MAY, 1962 183
membership which is common to fund and any other
such fund, if such common period has been included in
the period of employment or membership taken into account
in applying the formula in relation to such other fund;

(6) unless, not later than the date on which he submits his
first return of income in which is included or should have
praregh C1). of Deeemph % OF Raia mich feniton
paragraph {1) of para; : or within such further
period as tbe Commissioner in the circumstances of the
Be PL AL iit a iia Tien at coe
more such funds having a common period of emplo yen t
or membership informs the Commissioner in gies in
relation to which fund such common period shall be
applied, the said period shall be applied to such
fund as the Commissioner may, with the object of achieving

| the best result for the taxpayer, determine; (ji) __

(ii) “formula B", in relation to a pension fund, provident fund or
retirement annuity fund means the formula—

£=C—D,
(a) "2" repre he hich h be determined
) “2 represents the amount which has to determined ;

Oy “O" represents an amount not exceeding twenty thousand
rand representing the sum of the amounts calculated in
accordance with formula A in relation to the taxpayer
in respect of the different pension and provident funds of
which he is or was a member and from which any lump
sum benefits were or may be derived in consequence of
or following upon his retirement or death on or after the
fifteenth ag March, 1961, and ri gh of the
lump sum benefits received i accrued to him from
“Sage na et, suns in tt a yatig erg Aaa alan
in sub-paragraph (1) paragrap agraph 35 on or after the fi
teenth day of March, 1961, and whether in the current
or any previous year of assessment: Provided that the
sy § sum benefits in respect of any retirement annuity
fund taken into account for the i of this calculation
shall not exceed the amount received or accrued in commu-
tation of not more than one-third of the re gt a annuity
from such fund, or, in the case of the death of a member
before his retirement in relation to such fund, an amount
equal to one-third of the member's own contributions to
such fund (including so moch of any amount paid into
such fund for his benefit by another approved retirement
annuity fund, or. any approved pension or provident
fund, as represented his own contributions to the fund
by which such amount was $0. aid) together with reason-
tg mi: fart of the a“ acne cal-
culated from ates of payment of the respective con-
tributions to the date of death of such member; and

(c) “D" represents the sum of the deductions which may have
(I) of paragraph $ of this Schedule or sub-paragraph (1)

of paragraph 3 of this Sec We or sub-paragraph (1
of pardaraph 9 of the euch Schedule te the Income Ba :
scl, 1941, in er pect Of previous years of assessment; (11

(iii) “lump sum benefit” includes any amount determined by the :
commutation of an annuity or portion of an annuity and any
fixed or ascertainable amount (other than an rice payable :
by any fund referred to in parsgrar (e) of the nition of
“gross income” in section one of this Act whether in one amount ,

iv) “pension fund", in relation to any taxpayer, means a fi
(other than a superannuation, pension, provident, widows’ or
orphans" fund established by law) which has in respect of the
year Of assesament in question or any previows year of assess-
ment been approved by the Commissioner as a pension fund :
as defined in section one this Act the corresponding
provisions of any previous Income Tax Act, if during any
such year the taxpayer was a member of such fund; (iv).

(v) “provident fund", in relation to any taxpayer, means a fund
which has in respect of the year of assessment in question or
any eb year of assessment been approved by the Com-
missioner as a provident fund as defined in section ome of this
Act or the corresponding provisions of any previous Income
Tax Act, if during any such year the taxpayer was a member

__ Of such fund; sige

(vi) “retire” means, in relation to a member of—

(a) a pension fund, to retire from employment and become
entitled to the payment of an annuity from such fund; | :

(6) a provident fund, to retire from employment and become ,
entitled to a Of fall benefits in terms of the
rules of the fund:

(c) a retirement annuity fund, to become entitled to the pay-
ment of an annuity from such fund, _

and “retirement” in relation to a member of any of the said

_. funds bears a corresponding meaning; (vi) |
(vil) “retirement annuity fund", in relation to any ara ig ee means

a fund which has in respect of the year of assessment in question

or any previous year of assessment been ApEEe Se by the

Commissioner a3 a retirement annuity fund as defined in section

one Of this Act or the corresponding provisions of any previous

Income Tax Act, if during any such year the taxpayer was a

member of such fund. (v)

2. The amount to be included in the : Bross income of any person in
terms of paragrat ts) of the definition of “gross income” in section one
of this Act shall be the aggregate of the amounts received by or accrued
to such person by way of Jump sum benefits during any year of assess-
ment from any pension funds, provident funds or retirement annuity
funds, less the deductions permitted under the provisions of this Schedule.

3, Any lump sum benefit which becomes recoverable in consequence
of or following upon the death of a member of a pension fund, provident
fond or retirement annuity fund shall be deemed to be a lomo sum

GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY, 279TH MAY, 1962 185
aaa aaa aaa
benefit which accrued to such member immediately prior to his death:
Provided that so much of any tax payable as is due to the inclusion in
the income of such member of any amount in accordance with the
provisions of persarapn, may be recovered from the person to
whom or in Whose favour the lump sum benefit in question accrues.

4, (1) If in terms of the rules of a pension, provident or retirement
eslapicth' 2 fund any lump sum benefit arising out of a member's withdrawal
or resignation is payable at a fixed or ascertainable future date, such
Benefit shall be deemed to have accrued to such member on that date or
on the date of his death, whichever is earlier, and shall Be assessed to
tax in respect of the year of assessment during which such benefit is
deemed to accrue as though it were a lump sum benefit derived by him
upon his withdrawal or resignation from the fund or upon his retirement
or immediately prior to his death, as the case may be.

(2) If upon a member's withdrawal or resignation from or the winding
up of a pension fund, provident fund or retirement annuity fund, 4
policy of insurance is ceded or otherwise made over to or in favour of
such member, any lump sum due in respect of such policy upon its
maturity or ¢arlier surrender shall be deemed to be a lump sum benefit
accruing to such member from a pension fund, provident fund or retire-
ment annuity fund, as the case may be, on the date of such pried or
surrender, or, if such member dies before such date, on the date of his
death, and shall be assessed to tax in respect of the year of assessment
during which such benefit is deemed to accrue as though it were a lump
sum benefit derived by him upon his withdrawal or resignation from the
fund or upon his retirement or immediately prior to his death, as the
case may be: Provided that if after the cession or making over of such
i any premiums are paid thereon by such member, there shall
deducted from such lump sum, in addition to any other deduction to
which such member may be entitled in terms of this Schedule, an amount
which bears to such lump sum the same ratio a5 the sum of the premiums
paid by him after such cession or making over bears to the sum of all
the premiums paid on such policy.

@) If a member of a Gch fund retires from such fund before he
reaches the age of fifty-five years in the case of a male or fifty years in
the case of a female on grounds other than ill-health, any lump sum
benefits received by or accrued to such member in consequence of or
following upon such retirement shall, unless the Commissioner having
regard to the circumstances of the otherwise directs, be assessed to
tax not in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 35 but in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 6 a3 though it were a lump sum benefit
derived by such member in consequence of or following upon such
member's withdrawal or resignation from such
BENEFITS ACCRUING UPON RETIREMENT AND BENEFITS DEEMED TO HAVE

ACCRUED [IMMEDIATELY FRIOR TO THE TAXPAYER'S DeatH: Depuctions.

A ede lr cr tig a ag etd in determining the amount re-
qui to be included in the oo lit aa income for year of
assessment in terms of paragraph 2 shall, if the tp sum benefits in
question have been derived in consequence of or following upon the
taxpayer's retirement or are deemed to have accrued to him immediately
prior to his death, be an amount be excecding the a value
pli lump sum benefits) equal to the greater of the following STOLE,
namely—

(a) an amount determined in with formula B in relation
o. such taxpayer, but subject to the provisions of sub-paragraph
oe); OF

(4) an amount equal to the sum of the amounts which would have
been allowed to be deducted in terms of penerae eer of
the definition of “gross income” in section seven of the Income
Tax Act, [4], ae to its amendment by the Income Tax
Act, 1961 (Act No, 80 of 1961), if such lump sum benefits had
been received by or had accrued to such taxpayer on the four-
teenth day of March, 1961, and had been required to be included
in his gross income in terms of the said paragraph, less the
serene of any deductions which may have been allowed to
the taxpayer under this sae peenranh or sub-paragraph (1)
of paragraph 5 of the Fourth Schedule to the Income Tax Act,
1941, in respect of any years of assessment preceding the year
of assessment in question.

(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the defini-
tion of “formula B" in paragraph 1, the amount that shall be taken
into account as represented by the symbol C in that formula for the
purpose of determining the amount of the deduction to be allowed in
terms of item (a) at nin Ha ragraph (1) in the circumstances described in
any of the items of this sub-paragraph shall not be less than the amount

(a) four thousand rand if the a he is or was a member of a
provident fund from which any lump sum benefit was or may
be derived in consequence of or following ay his retirement

_ on or after the fifteenth ay of March, 1961;

(6) in rm mg of Jump sum benefits deemed to have accrued imme-
dia prior to the as death, ten thousand rand;

(c) in respect of lump sum benefits deemed to have accrued to the
taxpayer immediately prior to his death and consisting of or
including benefits derived frem provident funds, an amount
equal to the sum of the taxpayer's contributions to such
funds including so much of the amounts paid into such funds
for his benefit by other provident funds as represented his own
contributions to such other funds; — |

fd) in respect of lump sum benefits deemed to have accrued to the
oe fog immediately prior to his death and consisting of or
including lump sum benefits derived from retirement annuity
funds in any case in which the death has occurred before the
taxpayer's retirement in relation to such funds, an amount ,

(not excecding the lesser of twenty thousand rand and the :
ageregate value of such lump sum benefits) equal to the sum of

the amounts the taxpayer could have derived in respect of the
commutation i Borat Of all annuities to which he
ment in relation to such funds had fallen on the preceding
(3) Where in respect of any year of assessment an amount has to be
determined in arecrdusce with formula B in relation to any taxpayer
in regard to any pension fund or provident fund prior to the date
his retirement in relation to such fund, it shall be assumed for the purposes
of such determination that such taxpayer will survive the date of his
retirement in relation to the fund in question and that he will continue
to be employed until that date on the scale of salary at which he is em-
_ ployed at the date on which the determination is made.
(4) For the Ley ap of any calculation in accordance with formula
B no regard shall be had to any lump sum benefit from any retirement
annuity fund which has not yet been received by or accrued to the tax-
(5) For the of calculating any which would have
been allowed to be deducted in torena ef graph coer of the definition
of “gross income” in section seren of the Income Tax Act, 1941, in the
circumstances described in item ” of sub-paragraph (1), regard shall
be had to the contributions actually made by the taxpayer to the fund or
funds in question and the period gach is of his os ae yrs before
the fifteenth day of March, 1961, and no cognizance shall be taken of
any contributions or of any employment on or alter that date.
WITHDRAWAL OR RESIGNATION: WINDING-UP: DEDUCTIONS,
6. The deduction to be allowed in determining the amount required
to be included in the taxpayer's gross income for aay sear of assessment
in terms of paragraph 2 shall, if the lump sum benefits in question have
been derived in consequence of or following upon his withdrawal or
resignation from any pension funds, provident funds or retirement
rere funds, or upon the up of any such funds, be the sum of
the following amounts, namely—
(a) $0 much of the lump sum benefits derived from pension funds
a3 is paid for the benefit of such taxpayer into another approved =
fund or any approved retirement annuity fund;
(6) so much of the lomp sum benefits derived from provident
funds as is paid for the benefit of such taxpayer into another .
approved provident fund, any on alia pension fund or any
(c) so much of the lump sum benefits derived from retirement annuity
funds as he peed in ee age ee ihr ics of sub-
paragraph (xi) of paragraph (6 the definition of “retirement
annuity fund" in section ene of this Act; and
(2) so much of the excess of the aggregate value of the lump sum
benefits in question derived from ail the funds over the sum of 3 )
the amounts allowed to be deducted under the preceding sub-
paragraphs as does not exceed six hundred rand:
Provided that in respect of any lump sum benefits so derived by such
taxpayer from any provident fund, the sum of the deductions under |
sub-paragraphs @) and (d) shall not be less than the lesser of cither the
agercgate val me of such lump sum benefits or the sum of such taxpayer's
one COnLEDtICeS ba ae beng! Inducing a0, much of the amounts |
id inte such fi or his benefit by other provident funds as represen
bis own contributions to such other funds.
7. For the purpose only of calculating the rate of normal tax eo
in respect of any year of assessment by any person whose income for that a
year includes an amount determined in accordance with the acute
of this Schedule, there shall be deducted from the taxable income of
such person the amount so included in his income, but in no case shall
the rate of tax be less than that applicable to the first rand of taxable |
income and nothing herein contained shall be construed as relieving |
any person from liability for taxation under this Act upon portion ,

